Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on epidemics and diseases monitored through 10 March. 
<H5>  Brazil </H5>
  Rabies/leishmaniosis/cholera -- The Aracatuba prefecture 
will 
have to kill 19,000 dogs in the next four years to stop the 
expansion of rabies in this city in the interior of Sao Paulo 
State. Leme, Andradina, and Aracatuba have already registered 
107 rabies cases. The State Health Secretariat reported that 687 
cases of leishmaniosis were registered in Sao Paulo in 1993. 
Meanwhile, the cholera epidemic continues in Ceara State, 
especially in Fortaleza, which has registered 85 percent of the 
cases detected in the state, which accounts for 11,983 of the 
15,364 cases registered nationwide in 1994. Paraiba State with 
1,066 cases and 10 fatalities, has the second-highest rate of 
cholera. (Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 3 Mar 94 
Section 3 p 1) 
  Malaria -- Para Federal University's Tropical Medicine 
Institute has discovered that the use of either mefloquina or 
artesunato has been 100 percent effective in the treatment of 50 
gold prospectors infected with malaria in Itaituba, 1,900 km 
west of Belem, capital of Para State. Itaituba is one of the 
municipalities with the highest malaria rates in the Amazon, 
which accounts for 99 percent of the 600,000 cases registered in 
the country per year. (Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in 
Portuguese 5 March 94 Section 1 p 12) 
  Leptospirosis -- The Sao Paulo State Health Secretariat on 6 
March confirmed that 14 people have died from leptospirosis in 
Sao Paulo State, 11 in greater Sao Paulo. A total of 142 cases 
have been registered so far in the state. (Sao Paulo FOLHA DE 
SAO PAULO in Portuguese 7 March 94 Section 3 p 3) 
  Cholera -- The Noel Nutels laboratory on 3 March confirmed 
that two new cholera cases have been registered in the Pinto 
Roquete and Vidigal shantytowns in Rio de Janeiro. The total 
number of cholera cases have risen to 16 in the city so far this 
year. (Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 4 Mar 94 p 9) 
<H5>  Chile </H5>
  Meningitis -- The Coquimbo Health Service reported that a 
four-year-old girl died of meningitis on 22 February in the 
township of Ovalle, in the Fourth Region, the first fatality in 
the region this year. (Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in 
Spanish 2200 GMT 3 Mar 94) 
<H5>  Uruguay </H5>
  Chagas -- Roberto Salvatella, director of the Health 
Ministry's Chagas Disease Program, stated that chagas will be 
eradicated in Uruguay in five years. He noted that no serious 
cases have been detected since 1984 and the number of houses 
attacked by the insect has dropped considerably. (Montevideo EL 
OBSERVADOR ECONOMICO in Spanish 25 Feb 94 p 27) 

