CSO 

  [Text] 
<H5>  Forerunners of Space Science in Japan </H5>
  Japan's rocket development started with a successful 
horizontal firing of the Pencil Rocket, which was developed by 
Professor Hideo Itogawa of the University of Tokyo in 1955. It 
was a solid-propellant rocket 23 centimeters in length and 1.8 
centimeters in diameter and was smaller than a model rocket used 
in competitions. Its range was about 1-1.5 km. It was followed 
by various rockets -- such as Baby, Kappa (weighing 1.75 tons), 
Lambda (9.4 tons), and Mu (over 40 tons) -- which started space 
science in this country. 
  The first satellite made by Japan, Oosumi (23.6 kg), was 
launched by a Lambda-4S rocket, which was a four-stage rocket. 
It made Japan the fourth country in the world to launch a 
satellite -- after the USSR, the United States, and France -- 
but it was in 1970, 13 years after the launch of Sputnik 1 by 
the USSR. Oosumi's main task was the observation of the upper 
atmosphere. It was developed by the Aerospace Research 
Laboratory of the University of Tokyo (currently the Institute 
of Space and Astronautical Science), which was founded in 1964 
and has since been continuously in charge of developing rockets 
for launching scientific satellites. 
  The National Space Development Agency of Japan (NASDA) was 
founded in 1969, a year before the launch of the Oosumi 
satellite. NASDA's objective was to develop launch vehicles for 
practical uses -- such as launching communication satellites -- 
as opposed to launchers for research purposes. 
  The 1960s represented an era of a spectacular space race 
between the United States and the USSR. In 1961, the USSR 
launched the world's first manned spacecraft, Vostok 1, which 
was followed the next year by the announcement of the start of 
the Apollo Project by the United States and the launch of the 
first American spacecraft, Friendship, manned by Astronaut 
Glenn. The world's first female astronaut, Tereshkova, went 
aloft on a space mission in 1963; whereas the United States 
succeeded in taking close-up pictures of the moon's surface in 
1964 and conducted a docking experiment with Gemini the 
following year. In 1966, the USSR succeeded in effecting a soft 
landing on the moon; and in 1969, Apollo 11 succeeded in placing 
men on the moon. France launched its first satellite in 1965. 
<H5>  N-Type Launch Vehicle </H5>
  Under the circumstances, Japan started to develop its own 
large rockets with the intention of joining those countries. Its 
first attempt was the development of the N-Type launch vehicle. 
In 1969, Japan exchanged an agreement with the United States on 
cooperation in space development. Japan's intention in executing 
the agreement was to make sure that it could launch practical 
satellites. Thus, it started its development of launch vehicles 
based on technology introduced from the United States. 
  What was obtained as a result of the agreement was the 
technology compiled up to and including the Thor-Delta Rocket 
System, which was regarded as a well-proven, highly reliable 
system. Japan built its large rocket technology based on this 
imported technology and proceeded to further development based 
on it. 
  The Thor-Delta rocket had been used for launching 
meteorological satellites such as TIROS and ESSA, geodetic 
satellites such as Navstar, communications satellites such as 
Relay, Telstar, Sincom and Intelsat, and many other satellites. 
<H5>  Construction of Ground Facilities </H5>
  The first launch vehicle complete with the supporting ground 
facility and launch system was the N-1. It was a three-stage 
rocket in which both the first and second stages used liquid 
propellants; it measured 32.6 meters in total length and 2.4 
meters in diameter and weighed about 90 tons. It was capable of 
launching a geostationary satellite weighing 135 kg. The 
propellants were kerosene and liquid oxygen for the first stage 
and hydrazine and nitrogen tetroxide for the second stage, and 
they were the same as those used for the Thor-Delta rocket. The 
vehicle was guided by a radio guidance system, in which the 
speed and location of the vehicle were measured by means of a 
radar, and the navigational information based on that 
measurement was sent to it on a radio wave. 
  The N-1 launch vehicle made its debut when it succeeded in 
launching the engineering test satellite Kiku, which was roughly 
a sphere with 26 facets, 80 cm in diameter, and weighed 82.5 kg; 
the N-1 launched a total of seven satellites, including the 
observation satellite, Ume, and the practical communication 
satellite, Ayame. It also succeeded in lifting the country's 
first geostationary satellite, Kiku 2, on 23 February 1977. With 
that success, Japan became the third country in the world to 
launch a geostationary satellite, after the United States and 
the USSR. 
  The successor to the N-1 is called the N-2. The decision to 
develop the N-2 was based on the need to launch larger 
satellites; the N-2 could place a satellite weighing 350 kg into 
geostationary orbit. The guidance system was switched to 
inertial guidance from radio guidance. It is a better system for 
guiding a vehicle along the predetermined flight path that is 
used by most launch vehicles today. 
  In addition to that, its tank capacity was increased, and 
the 
number of solid-propellant boosters was increased from three to 
nine. During its heyday, which lasted from 1981 through 1987, it 
launched eight satellites, including the geostationary 
meteorological satellite, Himawari, the communications 
satellite, Sakura, and a marine observation satellite, Momo. But 
the technologies used on it were mostly imported technologies, 
including most of the components, so that the usage was 
restricted by the United States. 
<H5>  Launch of Large Satellites </H5>
  Amidst those restrictions, the H-1 was the first vehicle 
developed with Japan's own technology for launching large 
satellites. Its key development targets were the second-stage 
engine, which was developed with an eye to using liquid-oxygen 
and liquid-hydrogen propellants for years to come, and the 
third-stage solid-propellant engine. The H-1 had a total length 
of 40.3 meters, weighed about 140 metric tons before launch, and 
was capable of lifting a satellite weighing 550 kg to 
geostationary orbit. 
  The first-stage engine, the MB-3, was also used on N-type 
vehicles, so the key point of the development was the 
second-stage engine. The same type of engine had been developed 
by the United States, the USSR, Europe, and China by then. After 
&yen;160 billion and six years, the H-1 made its debut with a 
two-stage prototype in August 1986. It successfully launched the 
geodetic satellite, Ajisai, and the amateur satellite, Fuji, 
followed by Kiku, which was launched by a three-stage version of 
the launch vehicle the following year. A total of nine H-1 
vehicles were produced. That vehicle played a major role in the 
history of this country's space development by launching, in 
addition to the above, the Sakura, the Himawari, Japan's first 
marine observation satellite, Momo, and the broadcast satellite, 
Yuri, until it completed its product life by launching in 1992 
an earth resources satellite, Fuyo, which is still performing 
its mission today. 

