BFN 

  [Text] Seoul, June 16 (YONHAP) -- Scores of representatives 
from the opposition camp and the academic and social circles 
said Thursday they would oppose punitive sanctions against North 
Korea for purposes other than securing nuclear transparency, 
even if such sanctions were contained in a U.N. resolution. 
  During a press conference at a Seoul hotel, 59 major 
opposition figures said in a joint statement that the North 
Korean nuclear problem should be solved peacefully through the 
basic South-North agreement and the joint declaration on 
denuclearization of Korean peninsula. 
  Among the participants were Rep. Yi Ki-taek, leader of the 
main opposition Democratic Party, YMCA Secretary-general Kang 
Mun-kyu, the Rev. Kim Kwan-sok and Chosun University President 
Yi Ton-myong. 
  They called on the U.S. Government to hold a third round of 
talks with North Korea for a package deal to settle the nuclear 
problem, also urging the South Korean Government to solve the 
issue through dialogue with the North. 
  "The most serious thing we are worrying about right now is 
the thought and action behind solving the nuclear row through 
sanctions," they said, emphasizing their opposition to sanctions 
by only South Korea, the United States and Japan or by the 
Americans alone. 
  They pointed out that the Korean people's survival is 
threatened by the vicious cycle of sanctions, repercussions and 
strong countermeasures without the principle of compromise and 
dialogue. 
  Meanwhile, the ruling Democratic Liberal Party convened a 
meeting of postholders to discuss the joint statement and urged 
DP leader Yi to reconsider his position on the nuclear issue. 
  DLP spokesman Pak Pom-chin refuted their views on the crisis 
of the Korean peninsula as "dangerous logic justifying North 
Korea's nuclear weapons development in a tacit gesture." 

