Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by S. V. Stefanovskiy, I. A. Ivanov, A. N. Gulin, </F>
and F. A. Lifanov; UDC 621.039.73] 
  [Abstract] From an economic standpoint, it is desirable to 
use low cost and readily available materials such as rock, 
industrial wastes, or fuel slag as matrices for localizing and 
immobilizing radioactive wastes. Glassification of 
sodium-containing radioactive wastes requires non-alkaline or 
low alkali rock and slags or other materials. Specifically, 
basalt, datolite, quartz sand, fluorite, clays, and loams have 
been proposed. The advantages of loam are mainly that it is 
readily available throughout the Russian platform, contains all 
required glass-forming components, especially silica and 
alumina, low concentrations of alkaline oxides, and a large 
amount of clay particles of less than 1 micron particle size, 
which facilitates making a uniform paste or slurry having 
thixotropic properties and being capable of long term storage in 
closed containers as well as transportation by pipeline under 
pressure over long distances. In the present work a study was 
made of glass formation in systems Na[.sub]2[/]O (waste 
oxides)- 
Al[.sub]2[/]O[.sub]3[/]-Fe[.sub]2[/]O[.sub]3[/]- 
SiO[.sub]2[/], encompassing glass compositions obtained from 
radioactive wastes and loam. Relationships between viscosity, 
specific electrical resistance, and chemical stability as 
functions of glass composition in a radioactive waste oxide-loam 
pseudo-binary system were determined. Infrared spectroscopy and 
electron paramagnetic resonance indicated that at over 40 
percent radioactive waste oxide content in the glasses, deep 
structural changes take place which are related to 
depolymerization of silicon-oxygen carcass manifested 
particularly as a marked increase in the leaching out rate 
sodium ions and cesium radionucleides. Figures 5; references 19: 
15 Russian, 4 Western. 

