BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
fileworthy reports on economic developments in Cuba carried on 
Havana radio and television in Spanish between 27 April and 6 
May: 
  Cuba Vision Network at 2220 GMT on 27 April reports that 
workers from Camaguey, in preparation for the harvest, have 
repaired blades for cane combine-harvesters, thus saving more 
than 78,000 pesos. Innovators from Camaguey machine shops are 
overcoming limited resources to repair water pumps and other 
equipment in homage to all workers on 1 May. 
  Radio Rebelde at 2300 GMT on 27 April reports that the 
Camilo 
Cienfuegos cane cutters brigade, which has only 10 workers, has 
cut 1 million arrobas of sugarcane in the municipality of 
Calimete, Matanzas Province. 
  Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks at 0000 GMT on 28 
April 
report that the Baracoa forest brigade, Guantanamo Province, has 
cut 1,200 cubic meters of costly hardwoods. This is not an easy 
task but the workers' willingness surmounts all other things, 
one of the workers said. The brigade will cut an additional 
1,200 cubic meters by 1 May and intends to cut 5,000 cubic 
meters this year. 
  Radio Reloj at 1400 GMT on 28 April reports that the 
cultural 
magazine LA GAZETA DE CUBA is circulating again in an expanded 
64 pages. 
  Cuba Vision Network at 2220 GMT on 28 April reports that the 
tomato harvest has "successfully" concluded in Pinar del Rio, 
particularly at Los Palacios Complex where 632,162 quintals have 
been harvested. This is approximately 20,000 quintals more than 
in 1993, although 150 fewer caballerias were planted. Over 70 
percent of the province's tomato harvest was distributed locally 
and in Havana; the rest of the harvest was allocated for 
industrial use. 
  Radio Rebelde at 1700 GMT on 29 April reports that the 11 
torula factories of the Sugar Industry Ministry have produced, 
to date, over 43,000 tons of animal feed, or 50 percent of the 
production goal of 1994. 
  Radio Rebelde at 2300 GMT on 29 April reports that Cuba's 
largest factory for producing plastic containers was inaugurated 
today. The plant is a joint enterprise established between the 
Spanish firm, (Guimar), and (Biofan). It will produce 60,000 
containers daily with 49 models ranging from 50 milliliters to 
30 liters, which will guarantee the containers needed for many 
exported products. 
  Radio Rebelde at 1700 GMT on 30 April reports that Cuba is 
reactivating cigar exports, its seventh main source of income, 
thanks to western credits, mainly from French and Spanish firms. 
The hope is to increase production next year and market Cuba's 
36 name brands in Europe. 
  Radio Rebelde at 1700 GMT on 3 May reports that 5,897 
caballerias of sugarcane were planted between January and April, 
meeting the goal despite the "tense" situation with the sugar 
harvest. Camaguey exceeded its goal by almost 300 caballerias, 
followed by Matanzas, Villa Clara, and Ciego de Avila. 
  Radio Rebelde at 0900 on 4 May reports that workers of the 
gas plant in Cardenas, Matanzas, have produced 2500 bottles of 
methane gas to replace the acetylene used in the steel industry. 
  Radio Rebelde at 1155 GMT on 4 May reports that milk 
production has improved in Ciego de Avila Province during the 
first quarter. Dairy farms produced 500,000 [unit not specified] 
more than in the same period of 1993. This production, while 
still low, reached a rate of 3.2 liters per cow by the end of 
March against last year's 2.6 liter per cow. Steps have been 
taken to begin the installation of minidairy farms in Basic 
Cooperative Production Units to provide better care for cattle 
during the current conditions of shortages in feed and other 
resources. 
  Radio Rebelde at 2300 GMT on 5 May reports that by the end 
of 
April Matanzas workers have extracted more than 270,000 tons of 
oil from the Varadero deposit. This production surpasses by 4 
percent the established objective, which by the end of December 
contemplates production higher than 800,000 tons, with an 
additional 30,000-ton commitment to the commander in chief. 
  Radio Rebelde at 1700 GMT on 5 May reports that San Juan 
Municipality, Pinar del Rio Province, harvested 20,000 quintals 
more tobacco this year in comparison to the same period of 1993. 
  Cuba Vision Network at 0000 GMT on 6 May reports that Pinar 
del Rio Province showed a 40-percent increase in weeding tasks. 
More than 250 caballerias are being prepared for the coming 
planting season. 
  Radio Rebelde at 0900 GMT on 6 May reports that during the 
first four months of the year, workers throughout Cuba weeded 
62,000 caballerias, planted 5,900 caballerias, and maintained an 
intense effort in the current sugar harvest. 
  Radio Progreso at 1100 GMT on 6 May reports that Francisco 
Linares, minister of labor and social security, announced there 
are more than 151,130 licensed self-employed workers in Cuba. He 
stated a decree will soon to be issued regulating infringements 
by people of that sector. 

