Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [UK Press Release from the Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries </F>
and Food: ``Terrestrial Radioactivity Monitoring Programme 
Report''] 
  [Text] A MAFF [Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food] 
report published today shows that radioactivity in foodstuffs 
remains at levels which pose no risk to consumers. 
  The seventh annual report of the Ministry's Terrestrial 
Radioactivity Monitoring Programme (TRAMP), describes the 
extensive scope of MAFF's monitoring programme and contains 
results from the analyses of over 6000 milk, fruit, vegetable, 
meat and environmental samples. The report shows that exposure 
of consumers to radioactivity via the food chain remains well 
below nationally and internationally recommended limits. 
  Government policy is that authorised discharges from any 
single site should not normally give rise to exposure greater 
than 50 percent of the internationally recommended annual dose 
limit for members of the public. The maximum potential exposure 
of consumers via the food chain is around five percent of the 
annual limit. These results are similar to those reported for 
1991 and demonstrate that radioactive waste discharged to the 
atmosphere from major nuclear installations in England and Wales 
has no harmful effect on consumers of locally grown produce. 
<H5>  Notes for Editors </H5>
  1. Copies of the Terrestrial Radioactivity Monitoring 
Programme 1992 Report are available from MAFF Publications, 
London SE99 7TP. (Telephone 081-694-8862). Price 15.00 pounds. 
  2. The Terrestrial Radioactivity Monitoring Programme 
(TRAMP) 
complements MAFF's monitoring of radioactivity in surface and 
coastal waters of the British Isles, for which reports are 
available from the MAFF Directorate of Fisheries Research, 
Pakefield Road, Lowestoft, Suffolk, NR33 7NL. 
  3. The internationally accepted safety limits for exposure 
to 
radioactivity are set by the International Commission on 
Radiological Protection. The National Radiological Protection 
Board is responsible for advising the Government on UK national 
limits. 

