BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Seven O'Clock Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] The controversial sentence reduction process with 
confessed drug trafficker Juan Diago Arcila Henao, a.k.a. El 
Tomate, which had been denounced by a Barranquilla judge as a 
judicial outrage, was overturned today by the Santa Fe de Bogota 
judge who reviewed the case. This is the first time this has 
occurred following negotiations between a prosecutor and a 
criminal. 
  More than 15 days ago, on direct orders of the Justice 
Ministry, a Santa Fe de Bogota regional judge began to examine 
the sentence reduction agreement that the Prosecutor's Office 
had negotiated with El Tomate. Serious flaws were found which 
did not justify the sentence reduction that had been granted. 
According to the deal annulled today, Juan Diego Arcila Henao's 
17-year-sentence for drug trafficking, illicit enrichment, and 
conspiracy to commit crime had been reduced to only four years 
for confessing, cooperating, and providing information. El 
Tomate's new sentence must now be decided. 
  This is the first time a deal with a drug trafficking 
kingpin 
has been rejected. This newscast has also learned that in order 
to avoid new overly generous sentence reduction agreements 
between drug traffickers and prosecutors, a special oversight 
commission will be created to review legal proceedings against 
important capos. 

