BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] </F>
  [Text] Moscow April 25 TASS -- Russian Defence Minister 
Pavel Grachev said that despite the failure of his talks with 
the Ukrainian defence minister on the Black Sea Fleet the 
dialogue must continue at a higher level. 
  Speaking at a news conference in Moscow on Monday, Grachev 
said that it is pointless to begin a new round of talks unless 
top level officials agree to take part. He believes that the 
talks should involve the first vice-prime ministers or even the 
prime ministers of the two countries. 
  The minister believes that before that it is necessary to 
agree some navy terms in order to rule out any 
misinterpretations in the future. Ukraine has been considering 
the term "navy" as including only ships and other navy vessels. 
However, in reality the navy includes, apart from ships, navy 
aviation, marines, bases and logistics units. 
  "The navy is not only what floats but also what provides 
support on the ground. The division of ships and vessels of the 
Black Sea Fleet is only one tenth of the implementation of the 
decision on the division of the fleet on the whole, only its 
first stage," Grachev said. 
  He said that at the talks in Sevastopol Ukraine set forth 
unacceptable conditions, including joint location of the 
Ukrainian Navy and the Black Sea Fleet in Sevastopol, which 
contradicts the agreement reached by Russian President Boris 
Yeltsin and Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk. 
  Ukraine suggested that Russian Black Sea Fleet ships should 
enter and leave their temporary bases through two-mile sea 
corridors and request permission three days in advance. 
Additionally, it proposed to regulate the navigation of Russian 
warships in Ukrainian territorial waters and the economic zone 
not by international acts, but Ukrainian laws. 

