BFN 

    [Editorial Report] Moscow Ostankino Television First 
Channel Network in Russian at 0800 GMT on 5 May, in the 
``Novosti'' newscast, carries a 2-minute report over video by 
correspondent Aleksandr Korovkin in which he claims that last 
year's expedition to the Komsomolets submarine, sunk in the 
Norwegian Sea five years ago, showed that ``the process of 
destruction of the protective casing of nuclear warheads is 
proceeding considerably faster than has so far been supposed by 
experts. The analysis of the results of underwater research has 
prompted some scientists to say that the Norwegian Sea could 
become polluted with radioactive elements as early as next 
year.'' 
  Korovkin recalls that the submarine's warheads contain 
plutonium, with a half-life of 24,000 years. This 
extraordinarily toxic element is 10,000 times more toxic than 
arsenic. 
  The submarine is lying at a depth of 1,700 meters and the 
plankton which is to be found here is consumed by fish. ``It is 
obvious that a sudden discharge of plutonium will rapidly cause 
an ecological disaster,'' Korovkin says, adding that a disaster 
of this kind can be averted and that Russia's Ministry of Civil 
Defense, Emergencies, and Natural Disasters is preparing a new 
expedition to the sunken submarine, charged with ``filling the 
nose section and the torpedo tubes with a special sorbent, 
capable of preventing the escape of plutonium.'' 
  Deputy Minister Sergey Valentinovich Khetagurov says that 
the 
science ship Akademik Keldysh is due to leave Kaliningrad on 15 
June with two bathyscapes on board. ``All the operations that 
have been planned are to be carried out in the space of 50 
days,'' Khetagurov says. 
  The report includes video footage of the sunken submarine. 

