BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "National Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] The prosecutor general of the nation sparked a new 
controversy when he said that the war on drug trafficking is a 
failure. He is now confronting the Drug Police, and he has his 
own figures and balance. With the following figures Prosecutor 
General Gustavo De Greiff summarized, point by point, his own 
balance. 
  [Begin De Greiff recording] Marijuana consumption has 
skyrocketed, while cocaine and heroin consumption has suddenly 
increased. What kind of success is this? 
  Not even 10 percent of the drugs that reach the markets or 
are even meant to reach the international markets are seized. 
What kind of success is this? 
  The public force in Colombia killed Mr. Rodriguez Gacha, 
killed Mr. Pablo Escobar, extradited Mr. Ledher, imprisoned 
several drug traffickers. However, none of these events has led 
to any variations in the illegal drug market. What kind of 
success is this? [end recording] 
  De Greiff has used these figures to support once again his 
proposal for studying the legalization of drugs in Colombia. 
  [Begin De Greiff recording] I am not becoming an advocate 
for 
the legalization of drugs. Nonetheless, I believe it is a 
weapon that will destroy the wealth of drug traffickers. [end 
recording] 
  Predicting the United States will probably unleash a storm 
against him as a result of these statements, De Greiff warned 
that he is ill. 
  [Begin De Greiff recording] I have a strange disease in my 
spine that does not allow me to bend over before those who are 
powerful. [end recording] 

