BFN 

<F P=106> [From "Caracol's 0600 to 0900" newscast] </F>
  [Text] Eighty-five percent of 1,278 people polled by 
Caracol Network over the weekend said they reject a 
decriminalization of personal doses of drugs. Barely 15 percent 
agreed with Thursday's ruling by the Constitutional Court. Some 
50 percent of the 15 percent who agreed with the ruling added 
that, although they support the decision, personal drug doses 
should be properly regulated; 25 percent said it was good to 
publicly approve drug use; 16.7 percent said it was a vote of 
confidence in young people; and 8.3 percent said they agreed 
with the decision because it would reduce the price of drugs. 
  We repeat that 85 percent voiced opposition to the 
decriminalization. Why did they oppose it? Some 31.3 percent 
said they opposed the ruling because it represented a health 
threat; 15 percent said it would put more criminals and drug 
addicts on the streets; 14.3 percent said they agreed with the 
call for a referendum on the issue; 7.5 percent said they were 
against decriminalization because it would lead to state 
corruption; 7.5 percent opposed it because it would create 
double standards within the Colombian judicial system; 7.5 
percent said young people must first be educated, adding that 
this task has yet to be carried out; 6.1 percent did not agree 
because they felt the decision was based on U.S. interference; 
5.4 percent did not agree because drug consumption is senseless; 
and 5.4 percent said they rejected the ruling because the 
current Constitution is inadequate and incongruous. 

