Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Yesterday, Onusal [UN Observers for El Salvador] 
Director Augusto Ramirez Ocampo called the recent political 
incidents very worrisome, particularly the attack on the Mario 
Valiente caravan and the attack on Arena [Nationalist Republican 
Alliance] deputy candidate Julio Gamero. "These attacks go 
against the agreement signed by the parties before Onusal," 
Ramirez Ocampo said. 
  The diplomat explained that as election day approaches, 
naturally political temperatures increase and more political 
rallies are held, however, the rallies held this past weekend 
were very worrisome. Given this, Dr. Ramirez Ocampo said that 
currently, Onusal is meeting with all the presidential 
candidates and asking them to watch their language and to 
recommend to their supporters that they comply with the fair 
campaign agreement, without verbal or physical violence, signed 
last year. In addition, he called on the population in general 
to be calm and to hold democratic elections, like the Salvadoran 
people and the international community want. 
  Regarding the previously mentioned cases, the head of Onusal 
stated his organization is acquiring information to inform those 
involved at a later date. 
  When asked if the commitment made by the candidates is being 
violated, Ramirez Ocampo clearly said that aside from the 
aforementioned events, there have been no other regrettable 
incidents despite the fact that the parties have scheduled 
political activities at the same times and places. Ramirez 
Ocampo concluded, "Onusal has been present at 655 political 
rallies, and it has confirmed that citizens and candidates have 
observed the commitment made, which will not be affected by the 
latest incidents." 

