BFN 

<F P=106> [As received via ANSASERVICE database] </F>
  [Text] Rome (ANSA) 7 Feb 94 -- It is absolutely the least 
polluting automobile engine. The exhaust emissions have been 
reduced by 90 percent with respect to the normal gasoline 
engine. We should already be able to see it in operation on 
delivery vans and buses in two or three years' time, and perhaps 
also on cars. Hydrogen is the fuel "of the next century," and 
the hydrogen engine continues to be one of the technological 
challenges being dealt with by researchers and experts from 
organizations and universities. In Italy, ENEA [National Agency 
for New Technologies, Energy and the Environment] has built a 
prototype of this "green" engine that is fitted with an 
"original" valve to mix the hydrogen with air. It has been 
installed on a Fiat "Ducato" van that has been "entrusted" to 
the University of Pisa for fine tuning. The system has already 
provided its first positive results: no carbon monoxide, 
unburned hydrocarbon, or carbon dioxide emissions. The only 
pollutants produced are nitrous oxides and these are produced in 
smaller quantities than by a gasoline engine. "It is a simple 
internal combustion engine," explains Raffaele Vellone of the 
ENEA, "in which the mixing of hydrogen and air must be perfected 
so that the combinations that give rise to nitrous oxide 
emissions are limited." According to Vellone this objective 
could be attained in the future. "Within three years," he added, 
"in addition to this engine, we will build a prototype `hybrid' 
vehicle, fueled by hydrogen with `fuel cells' that will give 
even better results because it will have an electric engine." 
  Both systems could produce emissions only slightly in excess 
of the limits set by American regulations specifying that from 
1996 buses should not emit more than 0.25 grams of nitrous 
oxides per kilometer. In particular the hybrid system with fuel 
cells could further lower this limit. According to Vellone, 
this coupling of hydrogen and the electric car could result in 
zero emissions if the fuel were produced by renewable energy 
sources. In fact hydrogen can be produced not only from methane 
but also from methyl alcohol, and biomasses, and by electrolysis 
starting from clean sources of energy: Hydroelectricity, solar 
energy, and energy derived from the wind. However, at the 
current state of the technologies, these systems are still too 
expensive. The cost of producing a liter of hydrogen can vary 
from 600 to 1,800 lire, compared with the 400-500 lire of 
methane and the 1,000 lire of gasoline. It is therefore 
preferable to produce hydrogen from methane or fossil energy 
sources. These systems cost less but are more polluting. The 
cost, however, is not the only "flaw" of the hydrogen engine. 
In fact the limited, though not extremely low, range of the 
vehicles (150 kilometers for a fully-loaded Fiat Ducato) is also 
"worrying" the ENEA technicians. Furthermore this fuel has a 
very low density (71 grams per liter compared with the 780 of 
gasoline) and therefore the tanks take up a lot of space. 
  "The first concrete applications of fuel cell vehicles," 
said 
Vellone "are planned for about the year 2000 and they will be 
applied to larger vehicles like delivery vans and buses. If the 
systems are miniaturized then they will also be installed on 
automobiles." Another problem is the lack of hydrogen pipelines 
for the distribution of the fuel. "The volatile nature of this 
fuel," added Vellone, "makes transportation feasible only if the 
piping is perfectly sealed." This problem also concerns other 
countries. A 200-kilometer experimental version has been built 
in Germany. Still abroad, in the United States, the 
gas-hydrogen mixture (the so-called "hythane") has been tested 
and has given positive results in terms of emissions. Although 
it is not "green" like pure hydrogen, this mixture does not 
create refueling problems because of the high percentage of 
methane. The recent results of studies conducted by the 
University of Pisa also confirm that, at present, this is 
possibly the best solution. However, it can be seen that the 
hydrogen engine will be most useful for urban transport. 
Therefore, ENEA advises that the best solution would be a "dual 
fuel" internal combustion engine. In fact the gasoline would be 
reserved for long journeys, while the hydrogen would be used 
solely in the city. 

