BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Juan Manuel Diaz C.] </F>
  [Text] President Guillermo Endara has confirmed that Panama 
must conclude the process of integration with Central American 
and through this process achieve induction into the North 
American Free Trade Agreement [NAFTA] among the United States, 
Mexico, and Canada. Endara said that the Central American 
countries could make economic arrangements with the North 
American countries to gain entry to NAFTA. 
  According to Endara, efforts to consolidate Panama's 
integration with Central America have continued and should be 
pursued by the next administration. President Endara was 
critical of remarks by members of the new administration, who 
said that Panama should attempt to gain entry into NAFTA before 
achieving integration with Central America. He said that 
considerable progress has not yet been made with regard to 
integration with the Caribbean countries, but that some efforts 
have been made with the Dominican Republic. 
  Among the most important steps taken to achieve Panama's 
integration with Central America was the creation of the Central 
American Integration System (SICA), which embodies the 
organizations, institutions, and commissions for integration. 
  The SICA was established as the legal regional integration 
organization with which all the countries would conduct 
consultations concerning difficulties with integration. A 
commission for Central American development has also been 
created to prepare work plans for the promotion of the region's 
economic growth. Additionally, a Legal Mutual Assistance Treaty 
is being signed by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, 
and Panama to combat the criminal activities most common to the 
region. 

