Outlined 

<F P=102>   94FE0205B Beijing ZHONGGUO HANGTIAN [AEROSPACE CHINA] in 
Chinese No 10, Oct 93 pp 8-11 </F>

<F P=103> 94FE0205B </F>
<F P=104>  Beijing ZHONGGUO HANGTIAN [AEROSPACE CHINA] </F>
<F P=105>  Chinese </F>
CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Wu Peizhong [0702 1014 0022]] </F>
  [Excerpts] 
<H5>  I. Introduction </H5>
  In oceanography, the most important issues are to recognize 
the different phenomena that occur on the ocean surface and to 
have a good understanding of the available resources in the 
ocean. These are also the objectives of ocean monitoring and 
surveillance. The traditional approaches for ocean monitoring 
and surveillance involve the use of surveillance ships, 
observation stations, ocean buoys, etc., to collect data that 
reflect the ocean environment and resources. However, these 
approaches are expensive, time-consuming and can only cover a 
limited area; consequently, they are not suited for wide-area, 
real-time, synchronous, continuous and dense observations. 
  Because of the immense dimensions and constant motion of the 
ocean, space-borne remote sensors have distinct advantages over 
other monitoring techniques. These advantages are: 1) unlike 
most conventional techniques which can only perform point-wise 
or line-wise monitoring, space-borne sensors provide an 
economical and convenient way to perform wide-area monitoring; 
and 2) they have real-time monitoring capability. Today, the 
simple ocean-surface monitoring technique has been replaced by 
the integrated technique which makes use of space-borne sensors, 
surface sensors and underwater sensors; in particular, 
space-borne monitoring is now becoming the principal technique. 
[passage omitted] 
  China's marine remote-sensing technology is lagging far 
behind [that of the United States and Europe]; the main reason 
is that the potential development of technical talents and 
scientists in this country is limited by the lack of raw 
remote-sensing data. Nevertheless, a great deal has been 
accomplished even with the limited data. In this paper, the main 
accomplishments are summarized, and an argument is made that 
since it is unlikely for China to launch its own remote-sensing 
satellites within the next few years, the best course would be 
to promote the research and application of remote-sensing 
technology in this country by making maximum use of the data 
collected by other countries. 
<H5>  II. Objectives and Requirements of Satellite Remote Sensing </H5>
in Oceanography 
  The main objectives of satellite remote sensing in 
oceanography are monitoring the dynamic ocean environment, 
observing of ocean color, and mapping of the coastal belt and 
offshore islands. 
  1. Monitoring the Dynamic Ocean Environment 
  Currently, satellite sensors can only detect changes on the 
ocean surface; internal conditions of the ocean are inferred 
from variations in the surface phenomena. The important 
phenomena include: 1) surface wind fields, wave fields, flow 
fields, tides, water pockets, front movement, vortices and 
internal waves; and 2) surface terrain, surface height and ice 
formation in the ocean. 
  Like other dynamic processes, the dynamic process of the 
ocean has its own characteristic length and time scales. In 
general, the length scale in the horizontal direction spans from 
several tens of centimeters to several thousand kilometers, with 
a span ratio of 10[.sup]6[/]-10[.sup]7[/]; the length 
scale in the vertical direction is typically 1/100 to 1/1000 
that of the horizontal scale; the span of the time scale is even 
larger, from several seconds to several years, with a span ratio 
of 10[.sup]8[/] to 10[.sup]9[/]. Based on these unique 
characteristics, the technical specifications of 
ocean-monitoring satellites must satisfy the following 
requirements: 
  (1) To achieve global monitoring, the earth resource 
satellites in general are placed in near-circular, 
sun-synchronous orbits. 
  (2) The scan distance and scan width of the ocean surface 
should be matched to the horizontal length span ratio, but 
because of the large variations in the span ratio associated 
with the different dynamic processes, and the limitations of the 
satellite orbit and the onboard detectors, it is necessary to 
consider a compromise value for the satellite design. 
  (3) The accuracy of the vertical length span ratio is 
primarily determined by the stability of the satellite orbit and 
the measurement accuracy. 
  (4) The operating life and the repetition period of the 
satellite orbit (including the back-up satellite) should be 
matched to the time span ratio. Because of the large variations 
in the time span ratio associated with the different dynamic 
processes, it is impossible to satisfy all requirements 
simultaneously; therefore, a compromise must again be 
considered. For an experimental satellite, it is reasonable to 
use a programmable repetition period. 
  (5) The observation of the key elements of the dynamic 
phenomena is based on the principle of measuring the roughness 
of the ocean surface; generally, active microwave detectors with 
all-weather capability are used. 
  2. Observation of Ocean Color 
  Ocean water contains organic and inorganic materials of 
different concentration. These include non-soluble organic 
materials such as floating plants, soluble organic materials 
such as yellow substances, and non-soluble inorganic materials 
such as suspended particles of mud and sand. The pollutants in 
the ocean are a mixture of organic and inorganic materials. 
Observation of ocean color usually refers to the measurement of 
chlorophyll concentration, the content of suspended mud and 
sand, the pollutants, the soluble organic materials, the depth 
of water and underwater terrains. The requirements on satellite 
orbit and altitude for observing ocean color are similar to 
those for measuring the dynamic environment, the only difference 
is that the repetition period can be somewhat longer. 
  The detectors used for observing ocean color elements 
generally operate in the visible-light band. The commonly used 
techniques for measuring the chlorophyll content in the ocean 
are the blue-green spectral response method and the fluorescent 
peak response method; both techniques require fine resolution of 
the spectral band and high sensitivity of the measuring 
instrument. 
  3. Mapping of the Coastal Belt and Offshore Islands 
  The coastal belt consists of the land and sea region along 
the shoreline. The main objectives of mapping the coastal belt 
are to monitor changes in the shoreline, the configuration of 
the beaches and reefs, the building environment along the shore, 
the water depth of shallow sea and underwater terrain, the 
geological structure and the distribution of vegetation. 
  The technical requirement for mapping the coastal belt and 
offshore islands is the same as that for mapping land areas. 
Improvement is being made to the multi-band scanning radiometer 
currently used for mapping to provide higher ground resolution 
and three-dimensional mapping capability; also, the development 
of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) technology (which has already 
been implemented on the Japanese remote-sensing satellite JERS-1 
launched in February 1992) will further improve the mapping 
capability of the coastal belt and offshore islands. 
<H5>  III. China's Accomplishments and Technological Gap in </H5>
Satellite Remote Sensing in Oceanography 
  During the past 10 years, significant advances have been 
made 
in satellite remote-sensing technology. In this country, 
progress has been slow mainly because of inadequate 
remote-sensing data. But even under these limited conditions a 
great deal has been accomplished, and some useful results have 
been produced. These results are derived from data collected by 
the meteorology satellites and earth resource satellites. 
  1. Application of Remote-Sensing Data From Meteorology 
Satellite in Oceanography 
  Since the early 1980s, when China began receiving data from 
the U.S. polar-orbit NOAA satellites and the Japanese 
geostationary GMS satellites, the following results have been 
produced: 
  (1) The data from NOAA AVHRR infrared channels 3, 4, 5 have 
been processed to derive surface temperatures of the ocean; the 
accuracy of the derived temperatures is +/- 1ÎC on average 
and +/- 0.5ÎC over a localized area; the geopositioning 
accuracy is 1-3 km. The data have been used in the following 
applications: 1) Issuing timely reports of ocean conditions to 
the fishing industry. By using the data of surface temperatures 
to determine the front of cold and warm currents, it is possible 
to issue timely reports of ocean conditions to the fishing 
fleet; these data have proved to be quite reliable from tests 
conducted over the past few years. 2) The Black Tide is a 
current that travels along the western boundary of the Pacific 
Ocean; it starts from Taiwan, moves northward past Okinawa, then 
turns east toward the coast of Japan, and terminates at 
160ÎE. It is a warm current system which has a direct effect 
on the climate of regions along its path. By analyzing the 
surface temperature data, preliminary results of the 
distribution of surface currents in the East China Sea during 
winter and spring have been obtained. 
  (2) Data from AVHRR infrared channels 3, 4, 5 of the NOAA 
satellite are used to monitor ice conditions in the northern 
part of Bo Hai and the Yellow Sea. Ice maps of this region have 
been constructed using sophisticated data processing techniques 
including projection transformation, position correction, and 
image enhancement; these maps show detailed diagrams of ice 
coverage and thickness distribution of ice. The maps are 
broadcast and distributed to the user every winter. 
  (3) Data from channel 1 (visible-light channels) of the NOAA 
satellite and channels 1, 3, 4 of the NIMBUS-1 satellite are 
used in a remote-sensing test to measure water color at selected 
points along the river and at the mouths of rivers; preliminary 
results of chlorophyll concentrations at the mouth of the Yantze 
River and in Hangzhou Bay and Bo Hai Bay have been obtained. 
  (4) Real-time cloud maps from the GMS satellite and its 
derived products are used to determine wind speed and direction, 
which in turn are used to predict the intensity, the location of 
the eye, and the path of a typhoon. 
  2. Application of Remote-Sensing Data From the Landsat 
Satellite in Oceanography 
  In the mid-1980s, China constructed a ground station to 
receive remote-sensing data from the U.S. Landsat. The data have 
been used in the following applications in oceanography: 
  (1) The MSS and TM data from Landsat are used to derive 
preliminary results of suspended mud and sand concentrations at 
the mouths of the Yellow River, the Yangtze River, Hangzhou Bay, 
the Pearl River, the Min River and the Yalu River. The results 
obtained for the Yellow River are found to be correlated with 
the movement of mud and sand in the offshore region, the erosion 
of the shoreline, the characteristics of the flow system and 
with the formation of the river delta. Therefore they provide a 
valuable data base for establishing future development plan for 
the Yellow River Delta, for performing maintenance and repair, 
and for developing oil fields and harbors in this region. 
  (2) The MSS and TM data from Landsat are also used to survey 
the northwest region of Hainan Island and to construct 1:200,000 
and 1:500,000 scale maps that describe the vegetation cover, the 
terrain, the geology and land use of that region. 
  3. Deficiencies of the NOAA and Landsat Satellites in 
Oceanography Applications 
  (1) The accuracy of the AVHRR detector of the NOAA satellite 
in measuring ocean surface temperature is rather poor; also, the 
detector is subject to cloud cover limitations and therefore 
cannot make continuous temperature measurements. In monitoring 
ice conditions, the surface resolution and geopositioning 
accuracy of the detector are poor; therefore it is difficult to 
obtain information on ice movement. In measuring ocean color, 
the spectral resolution and sensitivity of the detector are both 
quite low, hence it is difficult to obtain quantitative measures 
of chlorophyll concentration. 
  (2) The TM (ETM) data from Landsat have poor spectral 
resolution and low sensitivity so it is difficult to obtain 
quantitative measures of suspended mud and sand in the ocean; in 
monitoring ice conditions, its repetition period is too long to 
be useful in providing information on ice movement; in mapping 
the coastal belt, the detector does not have sufficient dynamic 
range to accommodate the large difference in reflectivity 
between water and land. 
  (3) Many of the important marine environmental elements 
cannot be effectively measured by the remote sensors of the NOAA 
satellite or the Landsat; e.g., measurement of key dynamic 
parameters of the ocean; quantitative determination of the ocean 
color; quantitative measure of the pollution level in the ocean; 
and measurement of the depth of the ocean floor. 
  4. China's Technology Gap in Satellite Remote Sensing 
for Marine Applications 
  The development of marine remote-sensing techniques in the 
United States began in the mid-1960s; the data used were 
collected by the TIROS/NOAA satellites and the GOES family of 
weather satellites. In the early 1980s, China began receiving 
data from the TIROS/NOAA satellites and the GMS satellites, and 
in the mid-1980s, the data were first used in marine 
applications. Therefore, China is 20 years behind the United 
States and Western Europe in terms of receiving and applying 
data from weather satellites. Nevertheless, significant progress 
had been made within the past 10 years and China's current 
technology has reached a level comparable to that of advanced 
nations. But in the area of global weather monitoring and ocean 
monitoring, little progress can be made until China launches its 
own satellites. China's first experimental weather satellite, 
the Feng Yun-1A, was launched in September 1988, again 20 years 
behind the first TIROS/NOAA satellites; further effort is 
required to improve its operating life and storage capacity. 
  In July 1972, the United States launched the first 
land-monitoring satellite, the Landsat-1. In 1986, China began 
receiving remote-sensing data from Landsat-4 (launched on 16 
July 1982), and has continued to receive data for the past six 
years. Data from Landsat have generated excellent results in the 
survey of land resources, but they have not contributed a great 
deal to the important aspect of oceanography -- mapping of the 
coastal belt and offshore islands. In February 1992, Japan 
launched its own Landsat which is equipped with an L-band 
synthetic aperture radar in addition to a multi-band scanning 
radiometer; it has a ground resolution of 18 m x 18 m and has 
large onboard storage capacity. Therefore, the Japanese Landsat 
is a satellite with full-duration, all-weather global monitoring 
capability. The first Chinese Landsat is currently under 
development; it probably will not be launched until after 1994. 
Its detectors are similar to those used on the U.S. Landsat-5; 
in other words, the technology used on the Chinese Landsat is 
also 20 years behind. 
  In June 1978, the United States launched the world's first 
integrated marine observation satellite, the SEASAT-A. It is 
equipped with five detectors, four of which are microwave 
detectors, and one is a visible-light-infrared radiometer. This 
satellite operated continuously for over 100 days, during which 
time it collected various data on ocean wave fields, wind 
fields, current fields, internal waves, boundaries between land 
and water, terrains of shallow sea, ice distribution, oil 
pollution, and terrains of the ocean surface. Analysis of the 
data by scientists in the international community shows that the 
detectors onboard the SEASAT-A are primarily used to monitor the 
ocean's dynamic phenomena. 
  Improved versions of the SEASAT-A detectors have been 
implemented on the ERS-1 satellite, which was launched by the 
European Space Agency (ESA) in July 1991; they are designed to 
monitor ice conditions in the ocean. China currently does not 
have the technological maturity to launch its own marine 
satellites. The microwave detectors required for marine 
applications are still in the experimental stage; also, there is 
a lack of comprehensive research effort to develop microwave 
remote sensors for marine applications. 
  In October 1978, the United States launched the world's 
first 
ocean-color monitoring satellite, the NIMBUS-7; it was equipped 
with a multi-channel microwave radiometer and a coastal zone 
color scanner (CZCS). During 10 years of operation (1978-1988), 
particularly the first five years, it had collected one-third of 
the global data on ocean color, ocean surface temperature, and 
wind velocity. In addition, the United States is planning to 
launch another ocean-color monitoring satellite, the SEASTAR. 
Its onboard SEAWIFS detectors with eight visible-light bands are 
expected to provide better performance than the CZCS. In China, 
there are no immediate plans for launching ocean-color 
monitoring satellites. 
<H5>  IV. China's Goals for the Development of Satellite Remote </H5>
Sensing for Marine Applications in This Century 
  Satellite remote-sensing technology for marine application 
in 
China today is approximately 20-25 years behind the 
state-of-the-art. In order to accelerate the pace of development 
and to narrow the technology gap, we should concentrate our 
efforts on the development of integrated techniques for applying 
remote-sensing data in oceanography. We should also emphasize 
the systematic development of various technologies associated 
with satellite remote sensing, particularly detector technology, 
in order to build a good technical foundation in preparation for 
the launch of China's own marine satellites early next century. 
  1. Establishing Ground Systems for Receiving and 
Processing Satellite Remote-Sensing Data 
  The plan is to extend the capabilities of existing ground 
stations to receive data from the ERS-1 satellite, the JERS-1 
satellite (launched by Japan in February 1992), the ERS-2 
satellite (a follow-on satellite to ERS-1, scheduled to be 
launched at the end of 1994), the RADARSAT (to be launched by 
Canada in 1994), and three other polar-orbit satellites (the 
United States, Western Europe and Japan each plan to launch one 
satellite after 1997). During the 1990s, when China's own 
satellite remote-sensing technology is still in the early stage 
of development, the most cost-effective approach would be to 
make use of the remote-sensing data collected by foreign 
satellites. Such data will be used to meet the growing domestic 
needs in ocean petroleum development, marine products, marine 
engineering, ocean transportation, disaster prevention, ocean 
exploration, ocean management and military applications; this 
will also provide an opportunity to accumulate a knowledge base 
in applying microwave remote-sensing data, and to build a solid 
technical foundation for launching our own marine satellites. 
  The establishment of such systems will enhance China's 
position in the international community of remote sensing for 
marine applications. 
  2. Establishment of Ground Systems for Receiving and 
Processing Data From Ocean Color Monitoring Satellites 
  By upgrading existing ground stations of the weather 
satellites operated by the National Bureau of Oceanography, we 
will be able to receive data from foreign ocean-color monitoring 
satellites (e.g., the SEASTAR and the ADEOS). In view of the 
fact that China will not have its own ocean-color satellite 
during the 1990s, sharing data from other countries appears to 
be a viable approach. 
  The SEASTAR and the ADEOS satellites are expected to 
continue 
operating until the end of this century. They will be able to 
provide data on chlorophyll concentration in the ocean, 
suspended mud and sand content, and partial assessment of water 
quality; such data are important for the development and 
maintenance of fishing and cultivation zones, the construction 
of harbors and shipping lanes, and the development and 
utilization of beach-front areas. 
  3. Promoting Basic Research of Marine Satellite 
Technologies 
  The topics of basic research should include various types of 
microwave detectors (such as synthetic aperture radar, radar 
altimeter, microwave scattering meter, microwave radiometer, 
water-color detector and laser fluorescent detector), precision 
orbit determination techniques and precision measurement 
techniques. 

