CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Peng Keshan 1756 3784 3790]] </F>
  [Text]Land is the mother of wealth, and it is the basic 
building block for human existence and development. It is 
China's fundamental national policy to treasure and tend every 
inch of the land and especially to protect arable lands. But, 
China's land environment has been deteriorating for many years, 
and the question of how to deal with it becomes more critical 
every day, as it directly affects agricultural development, and 
by extension, the stability of the society, the economy, and the 
government. How to tackle the many issues of the land 
environment is a new task facing social workers and the labor 
force, and the preeminent requirement for economic growth and 
stability is the protection of agricultural lands. 
<H8>  The Present Situation </H8>
  There is only .086 hectare of cultivated land per person in 
China, one-third of the world average of .32 hectare. Less than 
one in ten of all the fields of the 95.7 million hectares of 
cultivated land have high and sustainable productivity, and 
there are 15 million hectares of low-productive, 
saline-alkaline, marshy, frigid, red-earth, water-eroded, 
sand-blown, arid, and coastal beach lands. Cultivated land is 
becoming a scarce resource, and this has not been given 
sufficient attention or has been overlooked for a long time. In 
the 20-year period from 1957 to 1977, 29.3 million hectares of 
arable land have been used for various kinds of construction or 
abandoned to waste, while 17.3 million hectares have been 
brought under cultivation, a net loss of 11.2 million hectares, 
equivalent to the sum of the cultivated areas of Guangdong, 
Guangxi, and Sichuan, an average loss per year of the total 
cultivated land in Fujian. From 1978 to 1990, 307,000 hectares 
of cultivated land disappeared. According to international 
standards, the danger point is reached when cultivated land is 
reduced to .053 hectare per person, and China's is presently at 
.086 hectares per person. Among the 26 countries with the 
highest ratio of cultivated land to population, China places 
24th, and with the population increasing at a rate of 16 million 
per year, having reached 1.16 billion by 1 July 1990, will top 
1.3 billion by the end of the century. Adding on to that a loss 
of 11.8 million hectares to capital construction in urban and 
rural areas, in time, when cultivated land averages .0667 
hectare per person overall, many provinces will range between 
.047 and 053 hectare, and the danger point will have been 
reached, and that is the situation that China is facing in its 
agricultural development. Even though there are still 13 million 
hectares of feral land, it is distributed over the frontier, and 
it is of poor quality, and it is not easily brought under 
cultivation without high investment. Arable lands that has been 
taken over in recent years are good fields and flatlands located 
around towns and cities, which further reduces the 
land-to-people ratio of arable land resources. This is the 
situation China faces nationwide, while at the same time wanting 
the country to be rich, the people strong, and the quality of 
life to be steadily rising, and China is thus presented with a 
dilemma and a formidable task. 
<H8>  The Problems </H8>
  The deterioration of land environment is the result of the 
disappearance and degradation of land caused by various kinds of 
natural and social activities which leads to the loss of and 
damage to the land environment. There are six primary 
manifestations. 
<H5>  (1) Hundreds of Thousands of hectares of Arable Land </H5>
Disappear Every Year. 
  The old pattern of ever expanding arable land in China 
reversed itself in 1957, and the downward trend has been getting 
worse day by day. Since 1978 the annual loss has been as high as 
307,000 hectares. The primary causes are as follows: 
  1. The demand for living space is increasing. With steady 
increase in farm incomes and reduction in the size of farm 
families, old farm dwellings are being repaired and new ones 
built, and rural villages are constantly expanding. 
Investigations have found that in the 4 years from 1985 through 
1988, 277,000 hectares of farm land have been taken up for the 
construction of farm dwellings, and one-third of all the farm 
land in the country has been taken for construction of every 
kind. In 1990, 24,000 hectares of land was converted to farm 
dwellings, and the area of village housing grew, and as living 
space encroached on the surrounding farm land, arable land 
disappeared day by day. 
  2. Capital construction is swallowing up the land. Economic 
growth since 1978 has caused a boom in capital construction to 
improve the economic and investment environment on every level 
and by any means, and a lot of land has been taken out of 
agriculture; and because of reckless and incautious land 
management operations, many construction units are grabbing land 
for use later or taking land they don't use, and a lot of it is 
good land in cities towns and villages. Besides that, there is a 
fever from top down for building roads, for village and town 
enterprises, city construction, real estate, and for opening up 
zones, are all important factors in the disappearance of 
farmland. In 1992 alone, 1.33 million hectares were taken up for 
development zones and real estate. 
  On top of that, unprocessable trash occupies up to 80,000 
hectares of farmland throughout the country. 
<H5>  (2) Soil Fertility is in Decline. </H5>
  Soil fertility is an important indicator of land quality. 
The 
long history of heavy use and little replenishment has caused a 
steady drop in soil fertility levels, and that is an important 
factor in ruination of the land environment. 
  1. The organic quality of soils is declining. The amount of 
organic content is important to improving the structure and 
permeability of the soil. In recent years there has been an 
evident drop in the organic quality of the soil around the 
country, which reduces the soil quality. Investigation of 1,403 
Counties in 1986 showed that the overall ratio of agricultural 
fields of mid- to low-levels of productivity had increased from 
60 percent to 80 percent, and 11 percent had organic measures of 
less that .6 percent. 
  2. There is a deficiency in nitrogen, phosphorus, and 
potassium. According to incomplete statistics, 59 percent of 
China's arable land is phosphorus deficient, 23 percent lacks 
potassium, and 14 percent is lacking phosphorus and potassium. 
  3. Fewer areas are using organic fertilizers for crops. The 
use of chemical fertilizers is increasing and many farmers are 
overlooking the value of organic fertilizers, reducing the 
amount of land for crops, and narrowing the range of soil 
fertility sources. Neglecting to store up organic fertilizers or 
to make compost, has turned a lot of farmland into "sanitary 
fields". 
<H5>  (3) There is Serious Soil Pollution. </H5>
  In the wake of human activity and environmental change, 
especially in the last 10 years, industrial pollutants (the 3 
wastes), and the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides in 
agriculture has been damaging to the land ecological environment. 
  1. Industrial wastes, "the 3 wastes". There are about 10 
million hectares of farmland now being polluted by the "3 
wastes" and 907,000 hectares of farmland are polluted by 
agricultural chemical products, the discharge of the "3 wastes" 
is greatly increased by the rapid development of industry, and 
much land around industrial and mining enterprises is polluted 
and farmland is deteriorating. 
  2. Chemical pesticides. Spraying of large volumes of 
chemical 
pesticides also causes soil pollution. Between 12.7 million and 
16 million hectares of China's farmland is polluted by 
pesticides. According to findings by the Ministry of 
Agricultural, the residue levels of "666" in the topsoil is .72 
mg\kg, DDT is .42mg\kg, and in many areas non-biodegradable 
residues of organic chlorine pesticides in the soil are 
increasing annually. Many economically developed areas are also 
experiencing fairly high levels of soil pollution because the 
use of chemical fertilizers in increasing and they are being 
improperly used. 
  3. Acid Rain. The discharge of large volumes of industrial 
gases and dust is causing acid rain in many areas. The State 
Meteorological Administration has found that the acidity of 
precipitation is on a strong upward trend, acid rain is evident 
in 20 provinces, cities, and autonomous regions, 2.7 million 
hectares of farmland are now being polluted by acid rain, and 
this alone is costing 2 billion yuan in losses to agriculture. 
Precipitation in Chongqing has an annual average pH level of 
4.12, and the acid rain level is up to 90 percent. The soil 
there is clearly acidified. 
<H5>  (4) Soil Erosion </H5>
  Soil erosion in unlevel terrain can readily cause damage to 
topsoil, soil nutrition, and reduce the quality of topsoil. 
China is among those countries in the world that have serious 
erosion problems. According to the mid-December issue of the 
Chinese Science Daily, 3.75 million square kilometers of land is 
being eroded away, and since Reconstruction, four-fifths of the 
land suffering from erosion has yet to be brought under control, 
and in controlled areas, for every residence that has been 
brought under control there are many that have not, and the 
trend is for erosion to spread more every year. 
<H5>  (5) Spreading Sands </H5>
  Sand is spreading over the land at a much faster rate than 
it 
is being brought under control, 24.2 percent of the national 
territory is desert, and 18.3 percent is turning into desert, 
and 47.3 percent has the potential for becoming desert. Yellow 
sand damage spreads at a rapid rate of 4.93 million hectares per 
year. About 10 million hectares of arable land and grassland are 
in danger of being overcome by sand, and every year another 
133,000 to 200,000 hectares are damaged and disappearing. 
<H5>  (6) The Frequency of Natural Disasters </H5>
  Between 1949 and 1990 there have been over 40,000 geological 
disasters, and over 2,000 have caused major damage; 405,000 
human lives have been lost, over 1 million people injured, and 
economic losses amount to 10 million yuan. Over 300 billion yuan 
in losses have been caused by various kinds of geological 
disasters in a period of over 40 years. Weather has caused many 
disasters. In 1991 alone, 55.47 million hectares of farmland 
were damaged, directly causing economic losses of up to 120.4 
billion yuan. Meanwhile droughts, landslides, hail damage, and 
frost damage are increasing in the western regions. At the start 
of the Liberation, droughts occurred once every 10 years and in 
the 80s it was every 6 years. In the east there are floods, dry 
spells, typhoons, and coastal erosion, and in 1991, 24.596 
hectares of farmland were affected by floods caused by storms 
causing disastrous damage to 14.614 million hectares of land, 
which was the worst year for flood damage to farmland since 
1949, causing over 70 billion yuan in economic losses. 
<H8>  Corrective Measures </H8>
<H5>  (1) Strengthen the Legal System and Education, and Raise the </H5>
Consciousness for "Cherishing the Land". 
  Protecting land resources is everybody's business, and the 
first order of business is to raise the people's consciousness 
to "cherish the land". The State Council has designated the 25th 
of June to be the annual "Earth Alert Day". Various level 
organizations will make the publicizing of the "earth management 
laws" a long-term mission, and will put it on the agenda of all 
levels of the Party and Government. 
<H5>  (2) Perfect the Earth Contract System, and Stabilize </H5>
Contract Policy. 
  As China's socialist market economy developed and reforms 
advanced, the transformation of the land system became an agenda 
item, and the continued improvement of the land-contract system 
became the main issue in deepening agricultural reform. The 
implementation of a long-term earth "entrenchment" policy grew 
out of the need to control the growth of the agricultural 
population. The issuing of licenses for long-term land 
cultivation was seen as an effective systematic method for 
putting the brakes on short-sighted and rapacious management 
practices, and to improve the basic environment and support 
structure for agriculture and its development. 
<H5>  (3) Set up a Tax Recycling System, and Collect Land Taxes. </H5>
  So that land-use fees will not increase the burden on 
farmers, they will be apportioned into the total sum of contract 
fees paid by farm residences. State land laws and regulations 
define the scope and standards for collection of 
land-cultivation taxes and urban land-use taxes. The execution 
of these laws and regulations is important to the protection of 
land resources and controlling the growth of the population. It 
is suggested that the State apply different tax rates to the 
different qualities of arable land resources to control the 
disappearance of arable lands. Part of the land taxes are to be 
used for intensified development of land resources, solve 
economic difficulties in the process of land development, lessen 
the financial pressures on the State, make more comprehensive 
use of land resources, and raise the technical level scientific 
research. 
<H5>  (4) Raise the Awareness of the National Situation, and Make </H5>
Sensible Use of the Land. 
  To break the conundrum of losing land and gaining people day 
after day, the popular idea that China is a vast territory with 
boundless resources must be replaced by a new awareness of the 
national situation, and the recognition that Chinese agriculture 
is in a dire strait. Take a scientific attitude and realistic 
approach toward the land environment, and put controls on all 
farming practices to constantly raise the economic returns to 
society from the smallest plots of land, and maximize 
conservation of farmland. The development and use of land 
resources should not be limited to arable land, but should 
include the development of larger areas of land resources with 
good potential. Change the traditional dependency on cereals to 
a modern concept of food, engender a macro-agricultural concept 
of planting, till when it is warranted, let grasslands be 
grasslands and forests be forests, suit measures to local 
conditions, coordinate tilling and husbandry of resources 
sensibly, and apply the principle of combined social, economic 
and ecological benefits in land utilization. 
<H5>  (5) Apply Comprehensive measures, and Control Land Pollution. </H5>
  Industrial discharge of the "3 wastes" is a source of land 
pollution. To control pollution, the internal and external 
environments of industrial production must be rectified. 
Combined administrative, economical, and legal action is needed 
to solve the question of industrial pollutants in urban areas. 
Sources of excessive pollution should be inspected and corrected 
in minimum time. There should be strict examination and approval 
processes for new construction, reconstruction and expansion 
projects to control new sources of pollution. As to the matter 
of putting controls on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, 
there should be: 1. multi-type mixtures and careful selection of 
raw materials before manufacture; 2. Effective, low-toxic and 
bio-degradable pesticides should be produced to replace the 
production of high-toxic, ineffective pesticides that have 
serious residual effects; and 3. There should be more research 
and dissemination of new fertilizers and pesticides with an aim 
toward achieving low-cost products that have little or no 
harmful side effects. While working for all of that, there must 
be better control, overall planning, and rational distribution 
of small-town industrial environments and new sources of 
pollution. 
<H5>  (6) Control erosion, and Prevent the Spread of Sandy and </H5>
Salty Soils 
  A combination of tilling, biological, and engineering 
measures is needed to control erosion. The rural energy 
structure needs to be reformed, fuel-saving stoves, methane, 
small hydroelectric and solar energy facilities should be 
developed, and better water conservancy construction and a line 
of commercial foodstuffs, oils and cotton bases are needed. 
<H5>  (7) Control Population Growth, and Implement Control Methods </H5>
  The population load-bearing capacity of China's territory is 
at a critical point. Population growth is out of hand, and 
arable land is diminishing. According to the calculations of 
United Nations agricultural organizations, the median level of 
food consumption will be reached in 2050, and the minimum per 
capita consumption of food should be 500-600 kilograms. If China 
population reaches 1.5 billion as expected, a minimum of 120 
million hectares of arable land will be needed. Chinese farmers 
now make up approximately 72.6 percent of the whole population, 
and their age structure is rather young, which presents a huge 
latent reproduction potential. Therefore population growth must 
be strictly controlled, especially the growth of the rural 
population. 

