Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by V. V. Viter, G. A. Yefremov, A. Yu. Ivanov, K. </F>
Ts. Litovchenko, S. S. Semenov, A. V. Smirnov, Yu. G. 
Trokhimovskiy. P. A. Shirokov and V. S. Etkin, NPO 
Mashinostroyeniya, Reutov, Moscow Oblast; Space Research 
Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow; UDC 
551.446.8:629.78] 
  [Abstract] The "Okean-I" scientific research program was 
drawn up during preparations for launch of the Almaz 1 
spacecraft for supplementing the results of experiments with the 
Cosmos 1870 artificial satellite. The program objective was 
further development of radiophysical methods for study of the 
ocean, study of the generation and propagation of surface 
gravity and gravity-capillary waves and evaluation of the 
information yield of radar data for diagnosis and study of 
various oceanic processes. The preliminary results obtained 
using a synthetic aperture radar are given. Data from 
subsatellite experiments (from flying laboratories and research 
ships) are analyzed (Kamchatka, Gulf Stream, NAECS, Pre-Cheri 
and Almaz 1/ERS 1 experiments, each of which is described). 
Detailed information is given for the following regions: 
Kamchatka; northwestern part of Lake Ladoga, Duiker Point near 
Cape Town; sea area to west of Kara Strait; Oshima volcanic 
island; Cape Shipunskiy; Sea of Okhotsk to north of Urup Island. 
Among the new results obtained were the following: generation of 
internal waves was discovered in the thermocline (in Lake 
Ladoga), caused by an atmospheric disturbance, and also from a 
"point" source (in the Kara Strait region) accompanying flow of 
a current around an underwater cape; surface manifestations of 
internal waves were observed in a number of new regions (South 
African shelf, around the Japanese islands and elsewhere). 
Figures 7; references 13: 6 Russian, 7 Western. 

