Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Yichang, February 27 (XINHUA) -- The construction of 
China's largest water conservancy scheme, the Three Gorges 
Project, has boosted real estate development in the project area. 
  Both domestic and overseas real estate investors are 
optimistic about the prospects for and potential of the real 
estate market there. 
  Yichang, the city in Central China's Hubei Province, next to 
the project, had 156 real estate development companies by the 
end of 1993. 
  Some 890,000 sq m of houses were built last year, 2.3 times 
more than in the previous year. 
  Of the real estate firms set up in Yichang, 30 are 
Sino-foreign companies which have imported funds amounting to 
one billion yuan (about 90 million U.S. dollars). 
  The city now has 329 construction companies with over 40,000 
workers building houses. 
  The Chinese Government plans to invest five billion yuan 
(about 510 million U.S. dollars) in the Three Gorges project, 
which is scheduled to take 17 years to complete. 
  Yichang has an ambitious plan to turn this medium-sized city 
into a big one along the Chang Jiang River by the end of the 
century. It has stepped up infrastructure and real estate 
progress, according to Liu Xuhui, head of the city construction 
committee. 
  It plans to carry out an upgrading project on 67 ha of old 
urban areas, and build a number of residential areas, holiday 
villages and six million sq m of new houses in the next three 
years, Liu said. 

