BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporter Qin Chun (4440 2504)] </F>
  [Text] Beijing, 18 Apr (XINHUA) -- At 1040 Beijing time 
today, the U.S. space shuttle Endeavor, carrying an 
image-forming radar, conducted an image-forming flight over the 
North China Experimental Zone. At the same time, an 
aircraft-based synthetic aperture radar, developed by the 
Electronics Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences [CAS], 
made a synchronized aerial sweeping of the same zone. The China 
project group's work on the "Space Shuttle Image- Forming Radar 
Program", a large international scientific and technological 
cooperation program, had begun in an all-around way. It 
indicated that China has been among the world's advanced ranks 
in aerial radar survey of the Earth's surface. 
  Radar remote sensing is one of the advanced, high 
technologies in the world of the nineties. The image-forming 
radar on the space shuttle has a multi-wave-length, multi-polar, 
and multi-angle image-forming capability. 
  The survey of the Earth's surface by space-shuttle-based 
image-forming radar is a large international scientific and 
technological program sponsored by the United States. Thirteen 
countries, including Germany, Italy, Australia, Canada, Britain, 
France, and Japan, are taking part in the program. It 
represents the most advanced technological level of radar remote 
sensing in the world before the year 2000. It consists of 52 
strictly appraised and carefully selected items. The item that 
China is in charge of is called the "China Scientific Research 
Project of Space-Shuttle-Based Image-Forming Radar," and the 
task is performed by the CAS's Remote-Sensing Application 
Institute, China's first-rate remote sensing research institute 
with an adequate technological force. 
  From the recent space shuttle Endeavor flight, China 
obtained 
46 minutes of image-forming radar data, which is equivalent to 
the total data of 500 sets of encyclopedias. After the space 
shuttle Endeavor lands on 19 April, the China project group will 
process and analyze all the data, including dry sand 
penetrability, global change research, and geological, 
agricultural, forestry, and marine applications. At the same 
time, the group will join American scientists in researching the 
"Death Valley" super-radar experimental zone. The project will 
be completed in three years. 
  Participation in the large international scientific and 
technological cooperation program by the China project group 
will help China's remote sensing techniques converge with those 
of foreign countries. Moreover, application of the advanced 
survey data will actually benefit China in prospecting of 
natural resources and in environmental monitoring. 
  It is reported that the space radar laboratory -- the 
space-shuttle-based image-forming radar -- will be airborne 
again in August this year, and the China project group will 
continue to conduct real-time survey then. 

