BFN 

  [Text] Yichang, May 2 (XINHUA) -- An equipment leasing 
market will be built for the construction of a gigantic water 
conservancy project at the Three Gorges on the middle reaches of 
the Chang Jiang river. 
  Yuan Guolin, deputy general manager of the China Chang Jiang 
River Three Gorges Development Corporation, said that his 
company, which is in charge of building the dam, welcomes large 
domestic and foreign equipment manufacturers to come to 
establish an equipment leasing market at the dam construction 
site. 
  The dam which is designed 185 meters high and nearly 2 km 
long will take 17 years to finish. When completed, the 
hydroelectric plant will have a generating capacity of 17,800 
megawatts. At present, preparations for the project has entered 
its peak time of digging, giving rise to great demands for large 
construction equipment and machinery. 
  As public bidding has been adopted in the construction of 
different sections of the entire project, the deputy manager 
explained, many contractors of different sections of the project 
do not have enough fund to buy the whole set of equipment needed 
in the actual building. 
  "If they can afford to buy all the construction equipment 
needed, it still would eventually lay idle after completion of 
the contracted section," said the deputy general manager, adding 
that construction speed would also be greatly affected by the 
period to import equipment after winners of a bid are decided. 
  The deputy general manager said that his company would adopt 
preferential measures to lure domestic and overseas equipment 
manufacturers to lease their products at the Three Gorges area, 
while continuing to import some large equipment to lease to 
companies which have contracted construction of sections of the 
project. 
  According to him, the China Chang Jiang River Three Gorges 
Development Corporation has already bought large construction 
equipment and machinery worth 200 million yuan and has leased 
them to companies which need the machinery for construction. 

