BFN 

  [Text] On Thursday without any debate the Latvian Saeimas 
confirmed the deputy mandate of the former first secretary of 
the Central Committee of the Latvian Communist Party Alfreds 
Rubiks. As many as 42 deputies, including the majority of the 
representatives of the ruling faction, Latvian Put, voted for 
this decision, 11 against, and 17 abstained from voting. There 
are 100 deputies in the Latvian Saeimas. 
  Deputy Chairman of the Latvian Put Indulis Berzins declared 
to INTERFAX that the faction recognized that the parliament's 
refusal to confirm Rubiks' mandate on the first day of Saeimas' 
work contradicts the law. 
  The trial of Rubiks' case who is accused of an attempted 
conspiracy with the aim to seize power in January and August 
1991 was started on June 14, 1992. Rubiks was arrested after 
the failure of the August coup of 1991 in Moscow in his working 
Cabinet. 
  Rubiks, who was elected as a deputy of the new Latvian 
parliament did not have his mandate confirmed at the first 
sitting of the Saeimas on July 6, 1993. 
  Representatives of the faction Ravnopravie (Equality) to 
which Rubiks belongs have repeatedly declared that this decision 
contradicts Latvia's Constitution. The Constitution stipulates 
that the mandate of a deputy can be suspended only in case of 
his death, voluntarily refusal from his mandate, or a decision 
of the court stating that the deputy committed a crime. 

