Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Anatoliy Pokrovskiy: "What Will It Be Called </F>
Now? Three Continents Are Slated To Meet in Orbit"] 
  [Text] With complicated configuration and a complex fate, 
this international space station has gone through the 
fundamental design studies, but still hasn't gotten a name. 
Either it will be Alpha the first letter of the Greek alphabet 
-- to mark the first step in that direction, or it will be 
Sigma, a symbol of integration, or it will be something else. 
God only knows what will happen and what the name will be. What 
is much more important is that the project opens new prospects 
for the development of a world space program. 
  It was several years ago that Academician Boris Raushenbakh, 
one of the participants in the founding of the our space 
program, observed that the romantic period of its development, 
when every new step in near-Earth space was taken with 
enthusiasm and with not always well-founded hope, has ended. The 
time has come when any and all of the multitude of space 
projects are assessed soberly and in a businesslike manner. 
  And recently, the current director of the Russian Space 
Agency, Yuriy Koptev, sighed heavily about that same period of 
"romantic dreams": 
  "Do you know the most horrible sin that a space firm could 
have committed back then? To not use up by the end of the year 
all the monies allocated to it." 
  Koptev's sighs are understandable to any Russian. What is 
more surprising is that sighs no less heavy are emanating from 
across the ocean. America's NASA, after calculating the 
prospects of the operation of long-duration orbital stations -- 
and that includes on the basis of our Mir -- clearly couldn't 
manage the development of its own Freedom station within the 
time and monetary constraints set by Congress. 
  Then the Alpha project appeared. 
  What does it consist of? Briefly put, in the conditions that 
exist today, it is best to design and build a permanently 
inhabited international space station with an inclination of 
51.6ë, i.e., with the same inclination at which Mir is now 
flying. The same stock of completed research gathered in our 
country for the Mir-2 will be used for the station, as well as 
the American, European, and Japanese modules. 
  The first stage of this grandiose program calls for the 
joint 
work of crews from Russia and the United States on the Mir 
station and the Space Shuttle. Missions of the American shuttles 
to the Russian station will begin in 1995 and will be used for 
outfitting Mir with equipment that will include solar arrays 
that are more productive. The Russian party will supplement the 
station with the Spektr and Priroda modules, which will house, 
in addition to our equipment, two and a half tons of American 
instruments. 
  Some $370 million have already been allocated for that, and 
the financing will begin this coming year. Thus, in addition to 
expanding the research possibilities of the station, valuable 
experience will be garnered for creating and using the new 
international space facility. 
  The second stage, which begins in mid-1997, will involve the 
startup of the assembly of the station out of individual units, 
including the American living module and our towcraft, which 
will be put into orbit by the Shuttles and the Protons. And 
finally, in 1998, the complex will grow with a European and a 
Japanese module and three more Russian modules. The station will 
function for 10-15 years. 
  "And what will the average taxpayer get out of all that?" 
our 
journalists love to ask, following the Western example. Let's 
discuss it the way they do in the West. For a start, our space 
firms, which have absorbed the intellectual and technical 
flowering of Russia, will get guaranteed contracts, and that 
means that jobs and "brains" will be kept. Just what the 
intellectual wealth is, is indicated directly by the example of 
the birth of the international space station project. The 
Russian experience in the operation of long-duration orbital 
facilities in this case have made it possible, in the estimates 
of specialists, to shorten building the station by three to 
three and a half years and cut expenses considerably. 
Consequently, even if they wanted to (and that desire exists 
among some of our rivals), they couldn't get along without 
Russia on the world space market. 
  Generally, we need to give proper due, it seems to me, to 
the 
skillful commercial policy of the Russian Space Agency. Step by 
step, systematically, it is getting around the obstacles that 
--both officially by the COCOM ban and, so to speak, quietly -- 
are being placed in the path of getting our hardware to the 
market. One after another, individual agreements are being 
arranged for the use of the Protons to launch a number of 
satellites and for the creation in Papua New Guinea of a launch 
facility for commercial launches. And now the project for the 
international space station, more than anything else, is 
providing for the conclusion of such a political agreement with 
Russia (most likely during the forthcoming visit of U.S. Vice 
President Gore), which will open the road to Russia to a 
full-fledged partnership. 
  That is especially needed now, when the space program is, 
more and more, turning to us not its "celestial" [illegible], 
but its "early" [illegible]. It's no secret to anyone that the 
Earth is ill. It's ill with civilization, as a child is with 
chickenpox. The abscesses of the industrial megalopolises are 
spread across the body of the planet, poisoning it with 
industrial waste, polluting its water and air, reducing its 
forests and making its soil barren, thinning the ozone layer, 
and changing the gene pool. All those attacks can be seen best 
from space. And in space, the antidotes to them can be made. 
Already planned is the production there of biomedical 
preparations, the growth of especially pure semiconductors, and 
the conversion of solar energy into electrical energy. Much can 
be found there by the researchers from the various countries 
gathering in orbit in the name of our common cradle. 

