CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A. Kishi, Mazda Technical Research Center, </F>
Yokohama] 
  [Text] 
<H5>  1. Introduction </H5>
  As the economic recession continues, a social re-examination 
seems to be taking place with regard to giving consumers the 
kinds of products and services that they really want. I believe 
that in times such as this there is more of a demand for 
authentic products and technologies. What I mean here by 
authentic is providing a basic value for goods purchased that 
gives the average customer a sense of satisfaction. 
  To meet these needs requires mature technologies that show 
an 
understanding of the consumer and what they want. The mature 
technologies referred to here are consumer technologies that 
essentially solve the problems that people consider important to 
them. For that reason, I think that we are entering a time in 
which research institutes that have stockpiled many different 
technologies will be asked to lead the way. 
  Therefore, in this paper, I would like to introduce the 
Mazda 
Technical Research Center, and in doing so, discuss what it is 
doing to address these new social trends. 
<H5>  2. Research Center Profiled </H5>
  The first technical research center that Mazda established 
to 
concentrate on new technologies was in 1985 at its headquarters 
in Hiroshima, and then in 1987, it added the Yokohama Technical 
Research Center in Yokohama. The basic "idea" behind opening the 
technical research center here in Yokohama was, to use the 
slogan at the time, "build an automobile culture." What this 
means is not treating the car simply as a means of travel, but 
treating it as one of the essential elements of society and 
culture that people need. 
  When the research centers initially received word of this 
new 
slogan, the research center at Mazda headquarters in Hiroshima 
decided to put its emphasis on new technologies that were 
directly related to the development of car types, whereas the 
research center in Yokohama decided it would focus on basic 
technologies in advanced fields oriented toward automobile 
technologies of the 21st century. At present, the two research 
centers are exchanging ideas and deepening ties with one another 
based on respective areas of expertise, and are steadily playing 
more important roles as the core places within Mazda for 
developing new technologies. 
  Next, before we get into specific research activities, I 
would like to discuss my own views regarding research. 
<H5>  3. Personal Views Regarding Research </H5>
  Research institutes are at the pinnacle of research and 
development, and have an important mission in developing and 
exploring consumer technologies. For that reason, I feel that 
research institutes have to reflect the long-term and 
medium-term needs of consumers in their research. 
  With that in mind, I would like to take the opportunity here 
to state the direction I believe that consumer trends are going. 
  Until now, companies have stressed high value-added cars 
that 
offer more in the way of diversity, performance, and 
functionality. In the future, however, there will probably be a 
shift from superficial "enjoyment" needs to more basic 
"enjoyment" needs. The need, for example, to maintain respect 
for human life, whether one's own or others, is growing ever 
more stronger in terms of both product safety and the 
environment. 
  For example, something has to be done about the more than 
10,000 people a year that die in auto accidents, and the other 
problems that exist such as environmental pollution caused by 
carbon dioxide and nitrous oxides, and also find other energy 
alternatives to petroleum. These problems are an immediate and 
future threat to ourselves, our families, and our children, and 
are cause for concern. 
  These are essentially problems that have to do with the car 
itself, so if we are to resolve these issues, we must steadily 
stockpile those technologies with an eye toward the future. 
  With that said, I would now like to introduce some areas of 
research to show the work we are doing in tackling some of these 
problems. 
<H5>  4. Research Activities Outlined </H5>
  In this section, I have divided the research activities into 
"environment-friendly" and "people-friendly" research, and 
focused in on particular research projects in each area from the 
perspective discussed above of addressing the basic needs of 
today's consumers. 
<H5>  4.1 "Environment-Friendly" Technologies </H5>
  What we mean here by "environment-friendly technologies" are 
those technologies for solving the environmental and energy 
resource problems we are likely to face in the 21st century. 
More specifically, it means those technologies concerned with 
developing energy alternatives to petroleum, and those 
technologies concerned with recycling that try to limit exhaust 
gas emissions by researching new combustion methods for reducing 
carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions, and making effective 
use of resources. 
  (1) Technologies for Developing Energy Substitutes 
  I would like to start by talking about the hydrogen 
rotary-engine automobile (HR-X). This car was developed to 
convey the image of an urban-type commuter car to be used in a 
21st century environment restored with light and greenery. 
Figure 1 [figure not reproduced] is a photograph of the HR-X 
car. A hydrogen rotary engine is a clean engine that burns 
hydrogen, and is revolutionary in the sense that it does not 
emit carbon dioxide nor destroy natural cycles. 
  More recently, we developed a prototype model of that car 
outfitted with a hydrogen fuel cell, and successfully test drove 
it for the first time. Figure 2 [figure not reproduced] is a 
photograph of the hydrogen fuel cell car. This car enabled us to 
clarify a number of technical issues having to do with 
outfitting a car such as this, and took us one step closer 
toward achieving the goal of a future society based on 
hydrogen-fueled cars. 
<H5>  (2) Technologies for Controlling Exhaust Gas Emissions </H5>
  In terms of research on engines, we are researching the 
composition of fuel mixtures and combustion mechanism using a 
variety of methods including both visual and computer-based. In 
trying to change the flame propagation process, we have been 
doing research on a peripheral combustion process that causes 
the spark ignition to occur from the periphery of the cylinder. 
Using this technique, we were able to reduce nitrous oxide 
emissions dramatically, and bring about a major improvement in 
lean burn combustion. That research received the Asahara 
Academic Achievement Award at the 42nd Japan Society of 
Automotive Engineers Conference. 
<H5>  (3) Recycling Technologies </H5>
  We are also doing research on materials in terms of 
recycling, which includes both metals and plastics, and in so 
doing, have developed a recyclable plastic composite made of a 
plastic fiber-reinforced liquid crystal polymer. We now have the 
ability to recycle plastic composites that were once virtually 
impossible to recycle, and are able to make more effective use 
of our resources. 
<H5>  4.2 "People-Friendly" Technologies </H5>
  What we mean here by "people-friendly" technologies are 
those 
technologies concerned with understanding the needs of the 
driver and passengers, and those concerned with improving safety 
in order to make the automobile society we live in more 
enjoyable and trouble-free. 
  (1) Preventive Safety 
  We are involved in a number of research projects on advanced 
technologies concerned with preventing accidents. One of these 
involves a "safe driving support system," and another a "road 
traffic communication system." 
  The safe driving support system is a system that acts as a 
back-up in case of driver error, and the communication system is 
a system for providing drivers with safety information about the 
roads. For example, in the safe driving support system project, 
we are doing research on automatic brakes and a white-line 
recognition method. 
  In Figure 3 [figure not reproduced], we show the test car we 
are using in our research on white-line recognition by image 
processing. Mounted in the trunk of the car is a high-speed 
computer programmed to recognize road features. 
  (2) Human Technologies 
  We are also making headway in research on a "driver 
simulator" in order to elucidate the driving psychology and 
behavior characteristics of drivers. In Figure 4, we show a 
general drawing of the driving simulator with a driver on board. 
The driving simulator is expected to be used as a tool for 
elucidating causes of auto accidents, and also as a tool for 
researching driving characteristics of beginners and older 
drivers. 

<FIG ID=JPRS-JST-014L-29A>      Figure 4. General Drawing of Driving Simulator </FIG>

  We have also been doing research on ways to evaluate driver 
alertness by measuring brain waves so that we can take those 
habits into account when designing the inside of the car so as 
to make it harder for the driver to fall asleep. Figure 5 
[figure not reproduced] shows an experiment being conducted to 
ascertain the relationship between brain wave signals and 
delayed responses in humans due to decreased alertness (person 
being tested in photograph is author of article). 
  There are a lot of central functions in the human brain that 
remain unknown. I think that by creating an understanding of 
driver characteristics such as recognition, alertness, and 
fatigue by studying brain activities that we can offer new 
consumer technologies for improved safety. 
<H5>  5. Conclusion </H5>
  In the foregoing, we profiled the entire research center and 
discussed some individual research projects. 
  I think that the keys to providing consumers with what they 
want in terms of basic values are the technologies that we have 
been busy stockpiling. 
  In introducing the research center from this perspective, we 
want to thank the many technical engineers and researchers 
specializing in automobile technology for their help in shedding 
some light on the research projects being carried out within the 
center. 


