Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Pyongyang, January 4 (KCNA) -- A composing and 
choreographing machine has been developed in Korea. 
  This machine attracting deep attention from composers and 
choreographers is capable of noting musical pieces and dances 
and freely compiling and printing full scores of music and dance 
notes. 
  When one plays a musical piece he conceived on an electronic 
piano its notes appear on the display along with the sound and 
the completed melodies are printed or saved. 
  And a choreographer can save in a computer by notes dance 
movements he conceivd and recall them on the display and 
complete them through revision. 
  The machine makes it possible to freely record 
comprehensively all rhythmic languages including Taekwon-do, to 
say nothing of dances of different countries, because it 
combines on a theoretical basis some 300 million dance movements 
and more than 2,000 million dance patterns with not many notes. 
  This machine which combines an electronic instrument and a 
computer together helps one create or read a dance adapted to a 
melody. 
  The development of this machine has opened a prospect for 
disseminating new music and dance works at art organizations and 
institutions at a time through a computer network. 
  Computer experts are showing keen interest in this machine, 
saying that it is possible to apply with it the alphabetic dance 
notation to formulae of architectural designing engineering and 
robot engineering and robot engineering (multipurpose robot). 

