Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article signed BF/SN/UC: "Drug Enforcement. Zurich Police </F>
Are Helpless"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] 
  [Text] Zurich, 15 Feb (ATS) -- According to Arthur Grob, 
head of Zurich's municipal police drug-team, increased 
repression of drug-related crime in 1993 was ineffective. On 
Tuesday at the press conference on crime statistics, he stated 
that the police are helpless, and do not know how to curb the 
overt drug scene. 
  Zurich's municipal police arrested more drug addicts and 
dealers last year than ever before--a 51 percent increase as 
compared with 1992. The police seized 30 kilograms of heroin, 
eleven kilograms of cocaine, and 1.72 million Swiss francs [SFr] 
in cash. None of this did improve the situation, Mr. Grob said. 
  He believes that repression must be supported by the 
establishment of anti-drug "closed clinics." Out of the 1,657 
persons held for questioning last year in the Letten, some 20 
percent came from Zurich. Foreigners made up 8.4 percent of the 
total figure. 
  Drug traffickers gather in one of Zurich's red-light 
districts. Out of the 1,368 persons held for questioning, 593 
were Swiss citizens. The rest were nationals from Albania, 
former Yugoslavia, Lebanon, Turkey, and North Africa. Most were 
in Switzerland illegally--a trend already noted in 1992 
according to Mr. Grob--whereas in previous years they tended to 
be registered as asylum seekers. 

