BFN 

  [Text] The ESA [European Space Agency] and the BNSC 
(British National Space Center) organized a press conference 
during the international oceanography congress held recently in 
Brighton. A report was given on the contribution being made to 
oceanographic studies by the first European remote-sensing 
satellite, the ERS-1, and on the future possibilities that will 
emerge when it is joined in the near future by the ERS-2, to be 
launched either in late 1994 or early 1995. 
  BNSC Assistant Director John Shrimplin opened the 
proceedings 
and introduced the speakers, Rene Bonnefoy, head of the ESA 
department for Earth observation programs, who reported on the 
current status of the ERS-1 mission, and T.W. Llwellyn-Jones of 
Leicester University, who described what the two ERS satellites 
would jointly be able to offer. A particularly interesting 
study made David Corr of Data Science Limited in Farnborough, 
was among the related papers presented at the congress in the UK 
seaside town. This paper shows that, although the primary 
function of the ERS's is to study oceanography, they have also 
proved to be ideal for another use, the production of digital 
elevation models (DEM). These are perspective images 
constructed from interferometric radar data obtained from space. 
This technique was first used in 1986 with data obtained using 
the Seasat satellite. However, in effect, it has only become 
universally known and commonly used since the great mass of 
interferometric data supplied by ERS-1 has been available. This 
offers global coverage and is also of such a high quality that 
it produces average resolution DEM's 5 meters high and 50 meters 
wide. 
<H5>  A Significant Italian Contribution </H5>
  ITaly's particularly important contribution to the ERS 
satellites is worth remembering. Alenia Spazio and its 
subsidiary Laben were respectively responsible for the design, 
development, and production of the radar altimeter (guiding an 
international industrial team made up of AME [expansion not 
provided], ETCSA [expansion not provided], Schrack, CASA 
[Aeronautic Constructions Company], and EMS [expansion not 
provided]), the on-board systems and equipment, and the testing 
and scientific data switching equipment (heading an 
international industrial team that included Odetics, BTM 
[expansion not provided], Spar, and ITL [expansion not 
provided]). FIAR, another Finmeccanica company, was in both 
teams. 
<H5>  The "TANDEM Scene" </H5>
  The Llewellyn-Jones report highlighted the value for 
oceanography, and more generally for the Earth observation, of 
the related activities that could be effected, with only 
marginally increased costs, in the months following the launch 
of ERS-2 when ERS-1 will still be operational (it should remain 
"in perfect health" until the end of 1995 and will continue to 
function during the first months of 1996, but will have a 
"degraded" capacity). He described the so-called "TANDEM Scene" 
of activity of the two satellites, that -- he underlined -- will 
be the only way to pursue a series of goals; the above-mentioned 
generation of global and medium-resolution DEM's, correct 
sampling of mesoscale oceanic structures, the determination 
(also by means of interferometry) of the height of forest tree 
foliage and of its variation, reporting on the mass and 
movements of glaciers and ice fields. These goals can only be 
pursued by making use of the satellites in TANDEM, and 
furthermore they could produce conspicuous benefits in sectors 
in which they cannot boast of having exclusive rights, such as 
the study of climatology (the mesoscale of wind fields, coastal 
winds), monitoring the growth of plants and studies of marine 
ice. 
  The TANDEM activity, in which a strong interest has been 
expressed both by the scientific community and by those working 
in applied fields (meteorology, agriculture, civil defense, 
etc.) could indicatively last from May to December 1995, but an 
extension to observe seasonal phenomena, particularly snow and 
ice during the early months of 1996, is not excluded if the 
performance of the ERS-1 remains at a high level. 
  The potential advantage of the TANDEM configuration is that 
it permits more frequent data acquisition for a given instrument 
(for example the SAR, Synthetic Aperture Radar ) for each area 
examined, and the comparison of data previously acquired by the 
instrument on one satellite with that acquired by another 
instrument (for example the ATSR, Among Track Scanning 
Radiometer) on the other satellite. The applications are 
extremely varied, and are even more so when the potential for 
global coverage in DEM form, with a resolution analogous to that 
of the SPOT [Probational Earth Observation Satellite] satellites 
is added. This is furthermore obtainable in any atmospheric or 
light conditions since radars are used. 

