BFN 

  [Text] Head of the nuclear safety research center of the 
Socio- Environmental Union Vladimir Chechetkin has expressed 
fears about a possible leak of liquid nuclear waste pumped into 
underground streams at a nuclear facility outside Krasnoyarsk 
named Krasnoyarsk-26. 
  In an interview with Interfax, he said that no thorough 
geological study of the area had been conducted though the 
underground nuclear waste storage at the Severny test site had 
been in use for 30 years. 
  Chechetkin does not rule out that the nuclear waste is not 
leaking out onto the surface through cracks. The test site is 
about five kilometers away from the Yenisey River, a fact 
causing particular worry by Russian environmentalists. 
  He also spoke of as many as 10 contaminated spots being 
found 
along the main pipeline through which the waste is pumped from 
the facility to the site, with radiation levels 200 times higher 
than normal background radiation. Among other substances, the 
waste contains plutonium whose half life is 24,000 years. 
  Experts fear that contamination may spread over a larger 
area. This raises particular dangers in as the plant management 
obtained a licence for collecting wild berries, mushrooms and 
herbs there. 
  Chechetkin said that plans were under way to put up a new 
facility for reprocessing nuclear fuel and that the project 
provided for the burial of tritium at the Severny site. He 
warned about dire implications from the continued pumping of 
liquid nuclear waste underground. 

