BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, May 18 KYODO -- Japan will have to transport 
plutonium by sea more than 100 times over the next decade under 
its plans to have its spent nuclear fuel recycled in Europe, a 
Tokyo- based antinuclear institute said Wednesday [18 May]. 
  Jinzaburo Takagi, head of the Citizen's Nuclear Information 
Center, said, "ships loaded with radioactive substance will make 
the round trip between Europe and Japan in a period shorter than 
a month." 
  The frequent transportation would result in harsh criticism 
from countries along the ships' route, he said. 
  The Japanese freighter Akatsuki Maru carried plutonium from 
France back to Japan from November 1992 to January 1993, 
sparking widespread protests both at home and abroad. 
  Japan has signed contracts to have about 7,100 tons of spent 
nuclear fuel recycled into plutonium in Britain and France. 
  Under the center's calculation, 45 tons of plutonium will be 
produced from the spent fuel by around 2010. 
  Also, Japan will have to take back about 3,200 cylinders of 
vitrified high-level radioactive waste and 150,000 drums of low- 
level radioactive waste, that are produced in the recycling 
process, they said. 
  The 45 tons of plutonium must be transported by sea in 20 
shipments, high-level radioactive waste in 30-60 shipments and 
the low-level radioactive waste in 50-150 shipments, they said. 
  Takagi criticized the government for having made only 
limited 
preparations to accept the waste as it has decided merely to 
store 1,440 cylinders of vitrified waste at a reprocessing 
facility now under construction in the village of Rokkasho, 
Aomori Prefecture, he said. 

