CSO 

  [Text] Kumamoto--On the 18th, the Kyushu branch of Nippon 
Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) will launch a "Multimedia 
Promotion Committee" to develop data communications services 
using multimedia technology. It will make strategic capital 
investments to build the Kyushu Information Infrastructure (KII) 
and will engage in joint ventures in various experiments and 
commercialization of multimedia systems with local autonomous 
governments which exercise a strong interest in such systems. 
  The committee is chaired by branch vice president Shigeaki 
Mihara and includes 20 members occupying department head 
positions. In the area of hardware, efforts will be concentrated 
on the the conversion of the communication network to optical 
technology to include installation of optical fiber cables at 
subscriber facilities. Special emphasis will be placed on the 
early conversion to optical technology of trunk lines servicing 
urban area subscribers. Installation of personal handy phone 
services will also to considered. 
  KII envisions the construction of a multimedia communication 
infrastructure and the conduct of training in the operation of 
the systems in a joint effort with local autonomous governments. 
Various projects underway in Kyushu which are aimed at the early 
installation of multimedia systems include the Fukuoka City 
Seaside, Kita Kyushu City Human Media Park, Oita City Hyper 
Network, and Kumamoto Prefecture multimedia regional cooperative 
experiments being conducted in Kumamoto city. 

