Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] Since the 1957 launching of the Vostok I 
satellite, the world's space utilization has been making rapid 
progress, mainly in the fields of observations of various kinds 
and communication satellites. Utilization of the space 
environment began with the Skylab project of the United States 
and became steadily established with the 1983 launch of the 
space shuttle/skylab. Thus, utilization of the space environment 
is a relatively new field. 
  Utilization of the space environment means conducting 
various kinds of space experiments that cannot be carried out on 
the Earth, making use of the special environment of space. This 
offers conditions of microgravity, high vacuum, extremely low 
temperature, etc., conditions that can be obtained on orbits 
around the Earth. 
  Japan's utilization of the space environment began with 
the first material processing test (FMPT) carried out in 
September 1992 and will become fully-fledged with the scheduled 
construction of a space station at the onset of the 21st 
century. 
  The following passage gives a description of space 
environment utilization, how Japan is tackling the subject, and 
what prospects are seen in the field. 
<H5>  Microgravity </H5>
  In a space ship orbiting the Earth, the centrifugal force 
applied on the ship offsets the gravitational force of the Earth 
and gravity does not work. Utilitization of the microgravity 
environment presents itself as the biggest progress made so far 
in the attempt to utilize the space environment. We are living 
on the surface of the Earth, subjected to the Earth's gravity 
and protected by its atmosphere. In such an environment, man has 
been investigating various phenomena and making use of the 
findings. 
  Various parameters, such as temperature and pressure, 
seriously affect the chemical and physical activities of 
substances in scientific tests. The investigation of such 
phenomena was, however, made on the Earth because there was no 
need to consider a different environment. 
  Today, however, the progress made in scientific technology 
points to the need for more essential research and the 
utilization of various phenomena. An environment without gravity 
is certain to enable man to look for new materials that cannot 
be produced on the Earth and to investigate life and other basic 
phenomena, bringing much new knowledge. 
  We have so far been analyzing various phenomena and 
utilizing 
the findings in the world filtered by gravity. If this filter is 
eliminated, what had been invisible so far should become visible 
and what had been visible should appear differently. 
  Various space experiments can be performed, utilizing such a 
condition. The following are the space experiments Japan has 
carried out. 
<H5>  1. First Material Processing Test (FMPT) </H5>
  A Japanese astronaut boarded the space shuttle in September 
1992 for the first time and a full-fledged space test was 
carried out jointly by Japan and the United States. This is the 
FMPT. 
  During the eight-day flight of space shuttle Endeavor, 22 
themes of Japanese material tests, 12 themes of Japanese life 
science tests and nine themes of U.S. tests, or a total of 43 
theme tests were conducted. Japan was able to complete all tests 
on 34 themes. 
  The FMPT suffered a ten year setback due to a delay in the 
U.S. space shuttle project and the 1986 Challenger explosion. 
However, this enabled Japan to make full preparations. Problems 
that occurred during the FMPT were solved by the efforts of 
related people and good luck, providing Japan with a precious 
experience. 
  The FMPT was a manned space experiment carried out by 
Japanese payload specialist Mamoru Mohri which gave Japan 
valuable data on manned space technology. The TV screening of 
Dr. Mohri working aboard the shuttle gave many Japanese young 
people a keen interest in scientific technology and provided a 
chance to prevent them from avoiding scientific study courses. 
  In the FMPT, it was learned that semiconductors of a high 
purity and quality that could not be produced on the Earth were 
able to be produced in space. An explosion phenomenon that could 
not be explained with conventional theories was also observed. 
Other test results pointing to the prospect of the utilization 
of space environment have also been announced. 
<H5>  2. International Microgravity Laboratory (IML) Project </H5>
  The International Microgravity Laboratory Project is a 
mission to conduct a series of microgravity experiments aboard 
space shuttles and the space lab of the U.S. National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). It is an 
international mission for institutes of Japan, the United 
States, Europe and Canada to carry out various kinds of space 
experiments. 
  Japan joined in the IML-1 held in January 1992 and conducted 
two tests on crystal growth of organic superconducting metal and 
on the detection and analysis of high-energy space radiation 
using biological samples. 
  In the experiment into the crystallizing of organic 
superconducting metal, well-formed crystals able to endure 
structure analysis were obtained in a short period of time and 
the prospect of tests on the growth of crystals in space was 
improved. The IML-2 is scheduled to be held around July 1995 
with Japan mounting six kinds of test devices for tests on 12 
themes, centering on life science. 
  It was decided in October last year that astronaut Chiaki 
Mukai, who won a high reputation in Japan and the United States 
for assisting the FMPT on the ground, is to board the space 
shuttle used in the IML-2. She is now undergoing training for 
conducting tests on as many as 80 themes presented by various 
countries. 
<H5>  3. SFU </H5>
  The SFU is a space experiment and observation system that 
can 
be recollected and used again. Unlike conventional artificial 
satellites, the SFU is planned to be launched with the H-II 
rocket now under development, to various kinds of space tests 
and observations in the orbit for a certain period of time and 
to be recollected on board a U.S. space shuttle for later use. 
<H5>  Space Environment Utilization and Manned Space Activities </H5>
  There has been much discussion on whether space activities 
should be manned or unmanned. The current conclusion seems to be 
that that which can be done without the need of human 
supervision should be done by machine and that which needs human 
supervision should be done manned. 
  After the second world war, there was remarkable progress in 
robot technology and this led to heated discussion on whether 
human supervision was necessary or whether robots should be used 
as far as possible. The search for coordination between man and 
robots may last forever. 
  The good points of both man and robots must be fully 
utilized 
in space development. For example, earth observation satellites 
and communications, which operate constantly and do not need to 
make timely changes in their functions, can remain unmanned. 
  In the field of space environment utilization, many space 
tests require timely handling by man. A manned space test has 
the merit of on-the-spot observation and the timely handling of 
trouble, while an unmanned space test can be conducted in 
microgravity environment better and at a relatively lower cost. 
  The robots to be used must master professional human skills, 
but they are yet in the learning process. Various kinds of data 
should perhaps be collected by manned activities for the time 
being, and technology for unmanned activities should be 
developed, using the accumulated data. 
  The FMPT proved that human activities in space can raise 
people's consciousness toward scientific technology. The TV 
screening of astronaut Mohri's space activities revived people's 
interest in scientific technology. The source of the evolution 
of living things born on the Earth has been the curiosity toward 
and the search of the unknown. 
  Japan is now training would-be astronauts to board a space 
station. Among the trainees, Koichi Wakata completed his 
training at NASA and was recognized as a mission specialist 
(MS), and a qualified astronaut by NASA. Wakata is expected to 
participate in high-level system operation training in readiness 
for the opportunity of space flight. 
  Astronaut Takao Doi was employed by NASDA together with 
Mohri 
and Mukai as staff for the FMPT and offered ground support of 
the FMPT tests in orbit. Doi will participate in the mission 
specialist training course to begin in fiscal 1994 to get an MS 
license. 
  In Japan, would-be astronauts are generally recruited 
publicly, and those who are accepted must abandon their past 
careers. They have to be prepared for this shift, while the 
employer, on his side, is obliged to duly reward them. The 
continuous employment of future astronauts must be elaborately 
planned with consideration due to the training of staff to board 
the space station. 
<H5>  Toward the Space Station Era </H5>
  Japan, the United States, Europe and Canada plan to jointly 
construct a space station on an orbit at an altitude of about 
400 kilometers from the end of this century through the early 
21st century. The space station is a lasting, multi-purpose 
manned space facility. 
  Each country is to supply its own station parts and offer 
some of its station space to the United States, in charge of 
constructing common parts, in exchange for electricity and other 
resources to be offered by the United States. 
  Japan is promoting a project to develop, operate and utilize 
a Japanese experimental module (JEM), which will enable Japan to 
conduct manned space tests regularly over a long period of time. 
  Japan has been openly inviting suggestions on experimental 
themes. In July this year, a primary selection of 50 themes for 
tests aboard JEM was made after an invitation of such test 
themes was issued in October last year. The test themes will be 
elaborated and the equipment to be mounted on JEM will be 
decided three years prior to the tests. 
  At present, suggestions of test themes are to be accepted 
until six years prior to the tests. This is according to the 
condition that international adjustment for testing plans is to 
be completed within five years before the test time and that the 
final decision of test themes is to be reached within three 
years prior to the tests. Moreover, space tests require 
elaborate preparations. 
  Japan has just begun to plan its space experiments and must 
improve its software and hardware for the efficient compilation 
of test plans. By accumulating space experiment technology, 
Japan must make efforts to shorten the period it requires 
between the proposal of themes and the actual holding of the 
tests. 
  Space experiments are very costly and require long, 
elaborate 
preparations, including preliminary tests. It is not something 
that can be done quickly. Therefore, it is necessary to dig out 
the latent needs of the researchers who wish to conduct space 
tests but are unable to do so. While taking a practical 
approach, it is required to make systematic, well-planned 
promotion of ground researches, preliminary testing and space 
experiments. 
  To meet this end, Japan is studying how to conduct space 
experiments on the basis of cooperative research structure that 
makes the utmost use of brains, technology and knowledge held by 
the industrial, academic and governmental circles pertaining to 
hopeful research themes. 
  After the end of the Cold War, space development competition 
between the United States and the Soviet Union ended and various 
countries are presently studying plans to utilize the space 
environment in many fields. Japan, too, will be urged to 
positively tackle space environment utilization and to achieve 
good results. 

