Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] Arequipa, 22 Dec -- A total of 143 persons stricken 
with cholera were hospitalized in the Arequipa Region during the 
week of 5-11 December; and half of them were cases detected in 
the coastal provinces of Camana and Islay. This announcement was 
made by the coordinator of the Regional Health Directorate, Dr. 
Miguel Alayza Angles. 
  The specialist noted that the current statistics are still 
being compiled, but revealed that they show an obvious decline 
from the number of cases that appeared in mid-October. During 
that period, as many as 270 patients showed up infected with 
vibrio cholerae. 
  Alayza Angles explained that the reduction in the number of 
persons stricken by the epidemic in this locality is due to the 
prevention campaigns conducted by the health sector in the 
city's peripheral areas. It is also a result of the good work 
done by the care-giving personnel, immediately treating persons 
who arrive at hospitals with symptoms characteristic of the 
disease. 
  He claimed that the battle against another outbreak of 
cholera in Arequipa has been won thus far with the resident's 
cooperation. For this purpose, strict hygienic measures have 
been recommended, as well as the boiling of drinking water, and 
the avoidance of consuming products sold by street vendors. 
  Alayza Angles remarked: "Nevertheless, people must not be 
over-confident, and must continue taking precautions that will 
enable them to avoid becoming infected with the disease." 
  He observed that, for the present, the medicines sent by the 
Health Ministry are sufficing to administer the treatment 
required by cholera patients. However, he pointed out the need 
for providing a larger supply of medications to the Camana and 
Islay hospitals. 

