Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["E.P." report on interview with Alain Lamassoure, minister </F>
delegate for European Affairs ; place and date not given: 
"Lamassoure: `Irritating but Purely Technical'"] 
  [Text] "Those who believe that the delay in the 
implementation of the Schengen accord is due to bad will only 
have to go to Strasbourg to see how the system is working, or 
rather not working: Then they will notice themselves that the 
cause is a technical problem." Alain Lamassoure, minister 
delegate for European affairs, speaks clearly and firmly: It is 
"an irritating but purely technical problem. With regard to the 
Schengen accord, the hardest part is completed. We have 
surmounted 90 percent of the difficulties in the political, 
financial, and administrative areas. Three software programs are 
still causing problems, and we will do all we can to solve 
them." During the month of October, the minister continues, "we 
found out about these difficulties. Optimistic as we were, we 
thought that the problem could be solved within the three months 
preceding the 1 February implementation deadline." Whatever 
happens, Lamassoure emphasizes, "this 'sine die' delay in no 
case implies a delay forever." 
<H3>  Balladur, Chirac Presidential Candidacies Viewed 
[LE NOUVEL OBSERVATEUR 13-19 Jan, etc] </H3>
  [Editorial report] Writing in the 13-19 January Paris 
left-of-center weekly LE NOUVEL OBSERVATEUR, Alain Duhamel notes 
that it is presently "fashionable" to question the durability of 
Prime Minister Edouard Balladur's "ascendancy," as well as the 
influence he can exert on the political scene until the 
presidential elections. While Balladur's popularity has a solid 
foundation, it will naturally suffer some attrition but will not 
collapse, for it rests, above all, on a "judgment of the man, 
his style, and the political equilibrium he represents," Duhamel 
comments. Much depends on the general situation, he adds: Were 
the government to fail in its attempt to stabilize unemployment 
and improve economic growth, and if pessimism gained, leading to 
serious social conflict, Balladur's popularity would wane. On 
the other hand, if the prime minister succeeds in imposing a 
unified list of Rally for the Republic [RPR]-Union for French 
Democracy [UDF] candidates for the Euroelections and in keeping 
his ministers out of the competition, he will continue to embody 
the role of unifier of the parliamentary right, Duhamel 
continues. Much also depends on the evolution of his 
relationship with RPR leader Jacques Chirac. While the French 
are grateful to Balladur for ending the rivalry between Chirac 
and UDF leader Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the prime minister 
should carefully avoid a "fratricidal Balladur-Chirac duel." In 
Duhamel's estimation, this might not be easy, since all polls 
reveal the prime minister is the favorite for president. Indeed, 
Balladur would leave all his opponents--from the right or from 
the left--far behind in the first round and would win handily 
against any adversary in the second. While Balladur stated 
before becoming prime minister that the future head of 
government in a cohabitation period should never run for 
president, he could not have imagined the extent of his 
popularity at that time, Duhamel comments. Balladur would only 
enter the race if Chirac were in a difficult position, Duhamel 
contends; and there will certainly be only one RPR candidate, he 
affirms. The issue will probably be settled after the European 
Parliament elections: If the situation remains unchanged, the 
prime minister would be better placed than Chirac, and thus the 
"Balladur phenomenon" will surely upset the political scene. 
Under different, more difficult circumstances that would 
negatively affect the government, Chirac might recoup, at which 
time Balladur's "courteous authority" would only have been a 
transition between the legislative and the presidential 
timetables, Duhamel concludes. 
  By taking himself out of the race for the Euroelections on 
21 
January, Chirac "opened the hostilities" with Balladur, notes 
Gilles Bresson in the 24 January Paris daily LIBERATION. "The 
war is scheduled for June," Bresson continues, when an early RPR 
congress will proclaim its leader an official presidential 
candidate. Chirac's move stemmed partially from the opposition 
of some of his close aides--notably Minister of Foreign Affairs 
Alain Juppe--against his heading the Euroelection list of 
candidates. It is thus not surprising that Chirac's preferred 
candidate at this time is Juppe, for he has the advantage of 
upsetting Balladur who rejected a Euroelection candidacy for the 
members of his cabinet, Bresson contends. In addition, relations 
between Juppe and the prime minister "brutally" deteriorated 
during the GATT negotiations when Juppe demanded from an unhappy 
Balladur written directives to negotiate--an idea suggested by 
Chirac--and was offended because the prime minister 
congratulated Jacques Delors and Leon Brittan but neglected him. 
Finally, Bresson notes, Balladur did not appreciate the fact 
that Juppe affirmed to the press his attachment to a Chirac 
presidential candidacy. 
  The 5 January Paris satirical weekly LE CANARD ENCHAINE 
notes 
UDF-inspired rumors claiming that the presidential election 
might be held earlier than scheduled. Besides Giscard's 
"enthusiastic" participation in this "campaign," the newspaper 
cites Minister of Defense Francois Leotard as openly expressing 
his belief that "Mitterrand will not end his term" and that 
"Balladur knows it and is preparing himself." The paper further 
quotes Leotard as saying that "this is precisely why I made my 
position in his favor so clear. Not only did the prime minister 
not reprimand me, but, on the contrary, he was very happy." LE 
CANARD also quotes Minister of Overseas Territories Dominique 
Perben as stating to the press that "Chirac is caught up in an 
implacable mechanism. He will be unable to run for president. It 
is Balladur who will." The paper comments that since Perben, a 
former deputy secretary general of the RPR, owes his political 
career to the RPR leader: "the Chirac boat must indeed be 
sinking: run for your life!" 

