BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Doing Radio" program] </F>
  [Text] The Canadian Government is resuming humanitarian aid 
to Cuba, as well as aid for development, by donating $1,000,000 
[currency not specified]. Basically, this aid consists of the 
shipping of food by Canadian nongovernment organizations 
authorized by the government in Ottawa. 
  (Eduardo Delbueno), speaker for the Canadian Ministry of 
Foreign Relations commented on the aid to the BBC. 
  [Begin (Delbueno) recording in progress] ...Canada heard, 
and 
this is the right moment [words indistinct] new government 
[words indistinct] current politics is different [passage 
indistinct]. [end recording] 
  Commercial circles in Canada believe the commercial ventures 
between Canada and Cuba are positive. Approximately 120,000 
Canadian tourists per year visit Cuban beaches, and in 1992, 
Canada reached nearly $140,000,000 [country of currency not 
specified] in exports to Cuba. 
  (Elizabeth Steamhurt), assistant to the Canadian 
nongovernment aid organizations for America, provided more 
details on the status of the commercial exchange between Cuba 
and Canada during her talk to the BBC: 
  [Begin (Steamhurt) recording] I believe it is true that this 
has to do with the decision because, in fact, Canada has 
important enough economic joint ventures with Cuba, especially 
for the Cuban [words indistinct]. I have some numbers here 
pointing out that in 1992, Canada exported nearly 140 million 
Canadian dollars worth of goods to Cuba, this includes wheat, 
paper, corn and telecommunications equipment. And from Cuba, we 
imported sugar, seafood, clothing and tobacco, among other 
goods. So, let us say that the economic exchange with Canada is 
not necessarily enormous, but it has significance in the current 
economic crisis in Cuba, in this context it is important for 
Cuba [words indistinct]. [end recording] 

