Propulsion 

<F P=102>   94WS0335C Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE 
WIRTSCHAFT in German 20 Apr 94 p 8 </F>

<F P=103> 94WS0335C </F>
<F P=104>  Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE 
WIRTSCHAFT </F>

<F P=105>  German </F>
CSO 

  [Text] Frankfurt. Starting in 1998 the Schweinfurt company 
Fichtel &amp; Sachs will produce the "Sachs Electric Superdrive" 
in 
bulk. This is a production-line hybrid vehicle which dispenses 
with the usual electric motors and their components, unlike 
vehicles with parallel drive train, because Sachs believes that 
they are too heavy and take up too much room. 
  In the "superdrive" the clutch, gears, camshaft, and 
differential are replaced by a generator, a tandem gear motor 
and its attendant power electronics. During a long-distance trip 
a normal combustion engine supplies the wheel drive with current 
via the generator and charges the battery. For exhaust-free city 
driving the system switches over to battery power, which can 
take the car about 50 kilometers. 
  Fichtel &amp; Sachs promises power figures suitable for 
automobile travel, high efficiency, low weight and a small 
construction volume. They say that a tandem motor combines two 
electric motors, of which each will drive a wheel on one axle. 
So far an Audi 100 2.3 E Quattro has served as a test 
automobile; it has a 100-kilowatt generator which provides a 
tandem motor with a current of 50 kilowatts on each axle. Now 
tandem motors with integrated drives are being developed in 
cooperation with the drive manufacturers Lohmann &amp; 
Stolterfoth, 
who also belong to the Mannesmann group. This should make the 
drive assembly for future hybrid vehicles even more compact. 

