Vehicle 

<F P=102>   94WS0335A Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE 
WIRTSCHAFT in German 15 Apr 94 p 8 </F>

<F P=103> 94WS0335A </F>
<F P=104>  Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG/BLICK DURCH DIE 
WIRTSCHAFT </F>

<F P=105>  German </F>
CSO 

  [Text] Ulm (Reuter)--The Daimler-Benz AG company has 
introduced a vehicle which they say is the first to run on a 
hydrogen fuel cell. Research head Hartmut Weule said in Ulm that 
the new motor could "become the greatest innovation for drive 
technology in the next century." The transport vehicle fueled by 
hydrogen is said to be a "true zero emission vehicle." He said 
that no exhaust gases were created in driving, nothing but 
water. However, Daimler-Benz does not think that it will be 
ready for production for 10 years. In this motor, electrical 
energy is produced in a chemical reaction between hydrogen and 
oxygen in so-called "cold combustion." But the size, weight and 
price of the drive unit are still making problems for Daimler 
project leader Werner Tillmetz. 
  In the experimental vehicle the 800-kg engine filled the 
entire load area. In addition, the technology is said to cost 
15,000 German marks per kilowatt of power. According to 
Tillmetz, the next version of the drive, planned for 1996, will 
only be an eighth as big and weigh 200 kg. 
  Daimler says that the development of the drive has cost them 
an amount in the hundreds of millions so far. The German fuel 
cell researchers are collaborating with the Canadian specialists 
from Ballard Power Systems in Vancouver in its development. 

