CSO 

<F P=106> [Discussion with Gennadiy Melikyan, Russian Federation </F>
minister of labor, by the ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA editorial 
collective, under the rubric "In the First Person"; place and 
date not given: "Gennadiy Melikyan: `The Duty of the State Is To 
Provide a Job and a Wage'"] 
  [Text] Starting today we are beginning the 
publication of items under the new rubric, "In the First 
Person," in which statesmen, public figures, and politicians 
will make statements. 
  The first item is devoted to a meeting between the 
editorial collective and Russian Federation Minister of Labor 
Gennadiy Melikyan. 
  [Melikyan] Things social and economic are dualistic. One 
cannot be separated from the other. This is why I would like to 
begin with this interdependence right away. The trouble is that 
under the current circumstances enterprises, if they have funds, 
are striving to allocate them for current consumption, primarily 
wages. This is why the average wage at "rich" enterprises, 
especially in the fuel and energy complex, has already exceeded 
1 million. The relatively "poor" enterprises behave in virtually 
the same manner, it is just that their potential is smaller. 
This situation is a direct consequence of unsettled ownership 
arrangements. Enterprises are free, which includes having the 
freedom to use available funds. However, there is no "effective" 
owner who is interested in accumulating funds rather than eating 
away at them. The state has withdrawn from monitoring the 
effectiveness of the use of its "state" grace. The shares of 
joint-stock companies, at least those of many of them, are 
dispersed among thousands of shareholders; frequently the 
controlling bloc of shares is held by the labor collective, 
whose members currently perceive themselves as hired labor 
rather than owners. Therefore their main interest is to increase 
current income rather than accumulate capital. 
  Indeed, we have suppressed inflation somewhat. We have 
suppressed it, to a degree, artificially, and then by quite 
uncivilized methods in a number of cases--by not paying grants, 
by depriving the budget-financed sphere of funding, by not 
paying for products ordered by the state, and so on. 
  Indeed, we have succeeded in financial stabilization. For 
the 
third month running inflation has been at the level of 9 
percent. This had not been the case for a long time. 
  In general, there are positive and negative aspects to each 
of the processes currently underway. We have suppressed 
inflation, but what has this led to in production? The volume of 
production is in a free fall--down 25 percent in the first 
quarter. 
  What is the result of the fall? The taxable base is 
shrinking. Budget revenues are diminishing accordingly. 
Ultimately we either have to agree to a greater budget deficit, 
which will trigger inflation, or will be forced to cut back 
expenditures yet again. You suppress inflation, and incomes 
fall. This is classic! 
  To an even greater degree we are worried about what may 
happen to production itself, especially employment. After all, 
things such as nonpayments and employment are very strongly 
connected. Previously we had nonpayments of a greater size than 
we have now--that is, of course, if they are adjusted for the 
price index. However, nonpayments are different at present. 
Enterprises used to have the ability to wiggle their way out of 
it somehow. Nonpayments are actually afflicting production 
directly. 
  In 1992 and 1993 our enterprises stopped, too, though not as 
many as have stopped now. This was primarily associated with a 
shortage of raw materials and subcontracted parts; the severance 
of economic relations was a factor. 
  What are production stoppages associated with at present? 
Effective demand is absent, it is impossible to sell products. 
This pattern follows: Production facilities shut down because of 
lack of funds, and mass unemployment sets in. Enterprises will 
shut down anyway, even if our drawn-out bankruptcy arrangement 
is not fully used. 
  In the process, some enterprises objectively face the 
impossibility of operating normally because of sharp changes in 
price ratios. If we look at the two years and three months since 
the beginning of price liberalization, prices for various goods 
have increased very differently during this period. The rise has 
been meteoric in the case of energy resources and 
transportation. The rate of growth in the food industry and a 
number of other industries has been much smaller. All of this 
has brought about a segment of the economy being inefficient. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] However, might this have been foreseen, 
perhaps? 
  [Melikyan] It might have. After all, the structure of the 
economy of the Union evolved in a certain price 
environment--with energy, transportation, etc., being cheap. If 
we proceed rapidly along the path of liberalization and the 
price ratios change, this means that the question of what to do 
about certain parts of the economy, for example, transportation, 
should be answered. Director of the Institute of Projections 
Yuriy Yeremenko demonstrated the possible consequences of a 
rapid liberalization of prices as early as the late 1980's. One 
of his conclusions was precisely that this would unavoidably 
bring about either the collapse of a part of the economy or the 
need to artificially support some enterprises by way of grants. 
  This is why many people suggested at the time: Let us change 
the structure of the economy in stages, using centralized 
methods, bringing this structure closer to the one that should 
be evolving in the environment of a market economy and 
unrestricted prices. Prices should be extensively liberalized at 
a later stage. However, it was impossible to implement these 
proposals in the period in which they were made. The political 
power and influence of the military-industrial complex would 
have actually made it impossible to carry out broad-scale 
restructuring in the economy. That is to say, this was a typical 
example of how the economy was tied to the political structure 
of our society. 
  Later, the right time was missed. I am profoundly convinced 
that after the August events of 1991 it was no longer possible 
to prevent the collapse of the economy without liberalizing 
prices. It is just that there was no adequate administrative 
power for it, and in the absence of such, for example, price 
controls cannot be imposed. That is to say, stage-by-stage 
liberalization in the economy had already become impossible. 
  And it is so at present. We say: From the point of view of 
economics it ought to be that way. Indeed, it ought to. 
Meanwhile, social constraints operate in their own way. Recently 
we debated the miners. What we are proceeding to do actually 
runs counter to all economic logic in every sense of the word. 
What are we doing? We are allocating tremendous grants. The coal 
industry has now been allocated grants for the year coming to 
almost 8 trillion rubles [R]. How will they be distributed? All 
enterprises of the industry have been segregated into groups. 
Those that are more efficient and operate under good mining and 
geological conditions, those whose producer cost is low--these 
enterprises will not get anything! Who will get the bulk of the 
grants? Those whose conditions are bad, whose coal is hard to 
mine, and whose producer costs are high. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] That is to say, we traditionally 
support 
the weak. Of course, there is a need for that. However, from the 
economic standpoint it is pernicious not to offer incentives to 
the strong, is it not? 
  [Melikyan] Naturally. After all, tremendous resources are 
channeled in the process to the sphere that produces no return. 
Therefore the overall effectiveness of the economy declines. 
However, do we have an alternative? Perhaps only that of closing 
down the weak enterprises. However, in this case I will go back 
to what I have said: What are we to do about the people? Are we 
to promote unemployment and crime? 
<H8>  * * * </H8>
  Being mistrustful of everyone, we did our own calculations. 
Of course, it turned out that the standard of living has fallen 
quite perceptibly, especially in 1992--by about 30 percent. In 
1993 a slow correction began. However, we are still far from the 
prereform period. 
  In the latest period we have succeeded in solving just one 
problem. People who lived below the subsistence minimum have 
begun to live somewhat better--this is according to surveys 
received in February. However, the improvement is temporary. 
Prior to February (it happened in December), we made 
special-purpose payments, and they "zeroed in" precisely on the 
least affluent. Three avenues were involved. First, a system of 
allowances for children was modified, and the allowances were 
increased. The allowances ended up in low-income families. 
Second, wages in the budget-financed sector were raised in 
December. However, the bulk of additional payments fell on the 
beginning of the year, and this produced results. Compensations 
for retirees were also increased. The situation changed a little 
bit right away. It may still linger. However, a few months from 
now everything will come back to the way it was unless new 
measures are taken. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Gennadiy Georgiyevich, our editorial 
office has an ITAR-TASS report quoting your ministry which says 
that 40 percent of our population live below the poverty line in 
our country.... 
  [Melikyan] It is not so. During all of 1993 there were 
fluctuations between 27 and 35 percent. In February a sharp 
decrease occurred: According to surveys, 16.7 to 17 percent 
lived below the subsistence minimum. In March the minimum came 
to R60,000. This is the average. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Many people predicted an explosion of 
strikes and mass discontent in the spring. Do you believe that 
this is realistic? 
  [Melikyan] Perhaps better than any other ministry, ours 
feels 
how, when, and where social tensions build. For example, last 
year we predicted the situation several months in advance with 
the greatest accuracy. This was not difficult because all of our 
interrelationships with the trade unions indicated that 
preparations for conflicts in the fall were underway. They began 
to form strike committees in the regions, facilitation 
committees, and committees for the struggle to improve the 
living conditions of the working people. We determined right 
away when the "explosion" was going to happen. This time there 
were preparations, too, and they thought that the "explosion" 
would occur in April. 
  To be sure, the "explosions" of discontent among the miners 
and their arrivals here were organized by the corps of directors 
rather than the trade unions. The struggle for grants is on. The 
Ministry of Finance proposed subsidies exceeding R5 trillion. 
The coal industry people demanded first R14 trillion, and then 
R11 trillion. The struggle began. The directors were ostensibly 
on the sidelines. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] However, are our trade unions and the 
corps of directors actually united? 
  [Melikyan] Yes; I asked myself with what funds had almost 
550 
people traveled here. How much does maintaining one person at a 
Moscow hotel cost at present? They took offense. However, in 
this case I will stick to my conviction. 
  Frankly I am apprehensive about the fall. Much depends on 
how 
we are going to behave. Why did I begin with the general 
situation and with the fact that we have contained inflation? I 
am afraid that the Romanian scenario might occur. Let us recall 
the period before they toppled Ceausescu. They also squeezed 
incomes for a certain, limited period of time, came close to 
repaying the foreign debt, and solved many other financial 
problems. However, ultimately the spring snapped. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] What is your attitude toward the 
president's edict on the responsibility of managers for failure 
to pay wages? As far as you know, has there been a surge of 
directorial indignation? 
  [Melikyan] The issues of nonpayments are always fundamental. 
At present they are one of the main reasons for social tensions. 
All of you remember the 1992 nonpayments when prices were 
decontrolled. They were associated with a lack of cash. The 
absence of cash now accounts for 0.4 percent of unpaid wages. 
Gerashchenko assures us that in cases in which they refer to a 
shortage of money it is just a lack of dispatch on the part of 
local banks, and this is indeed so. However, at present no 
payments are being made because enterprises do not have funds. 
<H8>  * * * </H8>
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Apparently in this instance we should 
take into account who the employees sign labor contracts with. 
  [Melikyan] Correct. They sign the contracts with the 
management of enterprises. Under the law the management should 
pay the grant at the established times. In general, the 
management should take the first blow if the collective is 
dissatisfied. 
  There are wordings in the Code of Labor Law, the Code on 
Statutory Violations, and the Criminal Code according to which 
charges may be filed against the management of an enterprise for 
failing to pay wages, but on the condition that some kind of 
premeditation is detected. 
  Premeditation does occur--for example, an attempt to provoke 
a strike. Incidentally, this was how preparations were made for 
October of this year [as published]. Specific preparations were 
made so that funds would not be credited to the accounts of 
enterprises but rather be put to use elsewhere. Meanwhile, their 
own employees were told that there was no money. 
  For example, I am aware of an enterprise that is not paying 
wages but has foreign exchange, and a lot of it. So, sell it! No 
way. Another enterprise holds shares, for example, in the 
Avtobank. Their conversion [into cash] is elementary. Sell them! 
They will not. In many cases the managers do not wish to do so, 
and dig in their heels. 
  However, I am far from thinking that the government is 
absolutely without blame in this instance. If the nonpayment of 
wages afflicted 8 or even 12 percent of the enterprises here, I 
could say that this is the directors' concern. As it is, you 
have worked poorly and have failed to ensure the regular 
organization of production, and now you answer to the 
collective. However, when this process involves 30-40 percent of 
enterprises we are looking at a general economic dislocation. 
This means that something in the system is wrong. 
  Recently an acquaintance of mine, the director of a 
metallurgical combine, visited. I told him that I knew who he 
was not paying. Miners had shipped coal, he had received it and 
was sitting tight. I shamed him, but he laughed: Stop picking on 
me with those moral principles of yours, he said. We supposedly 
no longer have them in our economy. So, he said, I will withhold 
payment for as long as I can. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] However, this actually amounts to 
interest-free credit. He does not pay the mine, the mine cannot 
pay the workers. Others do not pay one another in the same way. 
What can a system of economic sanctions be in this instance? 
What steps should the state take? 
  [Melikyan] Previously we had many mechanisms. There was a 
calendar sequence of payments out of the funds taken in by 
enterprises. In addition there was a blockage rule with regard 
to wages. If payday was drawing nearer, a certain amount of 
wages had to be retained in the account and not remitted 
anywhere. This was later abandoned. the sequence of payments is 
now such as the enterprise itself resolves to have, plus there 
are priority payments, for example, to the budget. 
  Have you noticed that a proportion of wages are being paid 
in 
kettles, pots, and irons? Why is this happening? Because the 
director does not want this money to be credited to the account 
since it will be drained away by taxes right away. 
  We have now proposed to again block some of the funds for 
wages in enterprise accounts. Of course, not all the funds, but 
at least six times the minimum wage, or four times the minimum 
wage in the extreme. Following a protracted debate with the 
Ministry of Finance we agreed that such blocking can amount to 
no more than one-half of the funds that should be remitted to 
the federal budget. After all, the budget should be replenished, 
too. If the budget lacks funds organizations that are financed 
by the state, for example, schools, hospitals, and so on will 
experience problems. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Was the Ministry of Finance naturally 
afraid of "doing in the budget-financed sphere" if the monies 
were claimed by wages? 
  [Melikyan] Precisely. This is why we reached this 
compromise, 
and I still hope that this system will be implemented. However, 
it will not save the day completely but will merely improve the 
situation. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] This is certainly a coercive 
administrative decision. 
  [Melikyan] Of course, this problem should have been resolved 
radically in a different manner, for example, by "shaking loose" 
the nonpayments. However, given that 27 percent of our 
enterprises have a negative balance at present, even a mutual 
offsetting will indicate that many will still be left with a 
negative value. What is to be done about them? Are they to be 
closed down? 
  Some will have to be closed down, although I believe that 
the 
closure is not the main point--this threat should hang over the 
enterprise and its management and prompt them to hustle and look 
for reserves and work opportunities.... 
  Unfortunately, at present a considerable proportion of the 
effort does not go into that but rather into an attempt to cover 
high costs by raising prices. This was the case before for the 
most part. At present, in the environment of limited effective 
demand, opportunities to greatly overstate prices have 
diminished for many enterprises, especially non-monopolies. 
Opportunities for increasing nonpayments (a variety of 
interest-free commercial credit) are likewise limited. This is 
why the pressure on the government, including demands for easy 
credit, grants, and various relief, has clearly increased. I 
think that we will have to proceed to support a number of 
enterprises. Of course, this will bring about a certain growth 
of inflation. Let it be 12-14 percent a month rather than 8-9 
percent, and let restructuring advance more slowly, but may 
there not be a mass stoppage of enterprises and cataclysmic 
unemployment. That is to say, we will continue to transform our 
economy more smoothly and at a lower sociopolitical cost. Any 
attempt to do everything in one fell swoop endangers all reforms 
altogether. 
  Of course, my economist colleagues might accuse me of 
deviating from economic expediency. However, the wisdom of 
practical policy is found precisely in taking into account the 
entire spectrum of relations rather than only the narrowly 
economic segment, no matter how superior its significance is. 
  However, I am categorically opposed to turning this country 
into a universal "welfare department." This would be harmful to 
us all. 
  Some time ago we surveyed 140 enterprises. Surprising things 
came out. For example, everyone is talking about a sharp 
increase in the cost of energy resources. However, enterprises 
at which any special systems of incentives for saving energy 
resources and expensive materials are in effect are few and far 
between. Here is the answer to many questions for you. 
  This is why I will say once again: We should help, but in 
the 
process at least two conditions should obtain. First, an appeal 
for help should automatically call into question the competence 
of the enterprise management for the positions they hold. This 
is not to say that the director should be dismissed immediately, 
or that the meeting of shareholders should be required to take 
this step. There are objective reasons, and they should be 
considered. However, each manager should feel personally 
responsible for the financial standing of his enterprise. 
  Second, assistance should be provided solely in conjunction 
with specific programs for the development of the enterprise. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Support for enterprises through the 
implementation of specific programs is one of the directions for 
an overall recovery in the economy. However, there are such 
avenues in the social sphere, too, are there not? 
  [Melikyan] I am profoundly convinced that we have failed in 
ensuring that, for example, housing become one of the engines of 
the economy. If we act as we are now--either providing housing 
free of charge or selling it at full cost--things will not get 
moving. A very narrow circle is able to purchase housing at full 
cost in our country, even on an installment plan. This is why 
there must be some kind of state support. It will pay for 
itself. We will prompt people to make money because many are 
prepared to apply themselves for the sake of housing, and apply 
themselves all the way. We should take advantage of that. 
  I am profoundly convinced that we have allowed an entire 
sequence of mistakes to occur at the initial stage of the 
reform. We have allowed mistakes to occur, and we should 
acknowledge them. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Which mistake do you consider to have 
been the main one? 
  [Melikyan] It was the notion that the invisible hand of the 
market would do everything all by itself, and that everything 
could be done in one fell swoop. 
  I also believe the anticipatory increase in incomes at the 
end of 1991, prior to the liberalization of prices, to have been 
a serious mistake. There is a lot in the Shatalin-Yavlinskiy 
program, "500 Days," and other programs from this period that we 
might disagree with. However, all of them emphasized "tying up" 
the money prior to the liberalization of prices. For our part, 
we did the opposite in the last months of 1991. We not only 
failed to tie up monetary savings and income but said that there 
would be a price increase, and therefore anticipate yet another 
increase in wages, retirement benefits, and so on. Do you 
remember what we got as a result in November and December 1991? 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] However, prices also took off in 
anticipation of wage increases.... 
  [Melikyan] At that time we also adopted the thesis that 
incomes do not have to be regulated. We had leveling all the 
time, it was said, and now we would decontrol incomes. They 
would be whatever they ended up being. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Are you of the opinion that prices, 
incomes, and the economy in general should be regulated? 
  [Melikyan] Of course. There are no countries without such 
regulation. The degree and the methods are at issue--for 
example, through the taxation of the individual income of 
citizens. However, the present-day mechanism for individual 
taxation of citizens is not working. We are not a Switzerland, 
not even an America. We need a lengthy period of time for people 
to learn to fill out returns, to be law-abiding, and to indicate 
all their income. So the mechanism is not working. 
  Look at how the mechanism is structured. Let us assume that 
I 
make R500,000, and you make R50,000. The same 12 percent is 
withheld from us all the time until my R500,000 salary adds up 
to R5 million. It will reach this level as late as November, and 
the difference in the collection of taxes will begin as late as 
November. They will withhold 20 percent from me as late as 
November, and then only from the November wage. My wage for the 
10 months will remain taxed at 12 percent. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Should we expect this mechanism to be 
revised many times yet? 
  [Melikyan] Undoubtedly. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] What is the "import" of this from the 
point of view of social policy? 
  [Melikyan] Money cannot be wasted right and left. It was 
stupid to proclaim the thesis that we will pursue a nonmonetary 
policy instead of a monetary policy. All this is far-fetched. It 
cannot be pursued instead, it can only be pursued as an addition. 
  Of course, it is necessary to take social factors into 
account. We cannot ignore them. 
  At present, we cannot influence enterprises in the sphere 
not 
financed from the budget as far as wages are concerned. We have 
adopted a pay scale for the budget-financed sphere, whether it 
is good or bad. However, there are no particular mechanisms for 
the sphere not financed from the budget. To be sure, there is a 
certain impact through the pay scale agreement which is 
technical in part because we still do not have owners. Given 
that representatives of both the employer and the trade unions 
demand from us that wages be increased, a conclusion may be 
drawn from this as to what the real employer is in our country. 
Actually, he is a hired employee, and all of them are now 
demanding: Give it to us, and that's it! 
<H8>  * * * </H8>
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] You have touched on the topic of mutual 
relations among trade unions, employers, and the state, the 
problem of the trilateral commission. 
  [Melikyan] It died down during a certain period. It was dead 
right after the putsch. Later we decided to bring back this 
trilateral commission after all. We cannot do without 
negotiations, without a search for accord and compromises. 
Conflicts, dictates, and tension are the alternatives. However, 
a problem developed in putting together the trade union side. We 
now have about 70 various trade unions. They just could not 
agree. This dragged on for several months. However, the 
commission began to operate recently. A new coordinator, Deputy 
Prime Minister Yuriy Yarov, was confirmed by an edict of the 
president. We succeeded in signing the General Agreement between 
trade unions, employers, and the government. There were many 
problems, and there still are. We are trying to solve them 
gradually. 
  The trade unions did not ultimately come to an agreement 
within the new representation, either. Some of them withdrew. In 
principle, we have yet to sort things out with many trade unions. 
  We sometimes try to make use of a ready-made mechanism such 
as it exists in the West. However, employers are absolutely 
different there. Their employers are the owners or 
representatives of the owners. They know that if they raise your 
wages it will be done out of their profits or their wallets. 
This is why they fight you. 
  In our country it so happens that the employers and the 
trade 
unions are on one side, and the government is on the other. 
Logically the government should not be taking part in this 
debate. Its role is sort of that of a justice of the peace, a 
guarantor who sees to it that the rules of the game are complied 
with in a regular manner, so that they do not devour each other. 
However, at present the government cannot stand aside. If it 
remains on the sidelines, the wage situation in some industries, 
especially monopolistic ones, will be even worse than now. Take 
power generation. They (both the trade union and the employer) 
would set such pay rates for themselves that they would seem 
sky-high to us. The same would happen in other industries 
because there is no objective confrontation here. There should 
be such between the employers and the trade unions. Besides, the 
trade unions themselves are, pardon me, not entirely normal. You 
will agree that both the employee and the director should not 
happen to be members of the same trade union. 
  Incidentally, I am trying to preach an idea which many of my 
colleagues do not like: the idea of strong trade unions. 
<H8>  * * * </H8>
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Gennadiy Georgiyevich, do you have a 
program for extinguishing social conflicts? 
  [Melikyan] We are organizing a service for settling 
collective labor disputes. So far it is very small, but 
territorial subdivisions are already being established. 
Incidentally, the heads of administration of virtually all the 
regions are asking us to organize something of this nature in 
their areas, too. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Does this look like a trade union? 
  [Melikyan] No, it is precisely a mediation service. It can 
subsequently become a neutral panel of labor arbitration, a 
court. We are now raising the issue of creating a legal 
inspectorate. Labor legislation is being violated by and large. 
The procuracy provides general oversight, but the labor 
inspectorate should specifically verify compliance with labor 
norms. Incidentally, such inspectorates exist everywhere in one 
form or another. If there were a formidable inspectorate, the 
situation with both occupational safety and the payment of wages 
would be somewhat different. The trade union legal and technical 
inspectorates have begun to retrogress little by little, 
especially after the social insurance fund was taken away from 
them. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Is this to say that the legal 
inspectorate will be your subdivision? 
  [Melikyan] We are "in favor," but at present the dispute is 
on. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] What about the occupational safety 
inspectorates? They have also collapsed, after all.... 
  [Melikyan] We were entrusted with this business on a 
temporary basis. Recently I was confirmed as the chairman of the 
appropriate interdepartmental commission. I think that this 
function will be assigned to us altogether. What does everything 
hinge on? There are two documents standing in the way. First, 
there is Basic Legislation on Occupational Safety. It was put 
together in a very unfortunate manner; it calls for the 
establishment of yet another new structure which would provide 
control and supervision over occupational safety. 
  I believe this to be absolutely superfluous. The Ministry of 
Labor or another existing organ may be entrusted with relevant 
functions. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Is the function of the "blue helmets" 
which you have assumed temporary? 
  [Melikyan] Do you mean the service for settling collective 
labor disputes? Hardly so. Experience indicates that even 
well-off countries have similar services. It is just that at 
some stage they have been transformed into something akin to 
labor arbitration. Moreover, the Americans, for example, now 
have labor arbitration within the organization of the Department 
of Labor. 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] Is this why you also intend to take 
over 
the employment service? 
  [Melikyan] I believe that a mistake was allowed to occur 
when 
the Ministry of Labor was split into three independent 
structures. Is it the business of the employment service to 
develop a labor market policy? No. This is the business of 
general economic policy. For its part, the employment service 
should organize registration of the unemployed, payment of 
benefits, retraining, and job placement. The Ministry of Labor 
will thus be assembled "under one roof." 
  [ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA] When the struggle for changes in our 
society began we very much wanted to escape from the dictate of 
the state and transfer many functions to society. We wanted the 
public not to be deprived of its rights to the degree it used to 
be. It is now coming out that many services have been taken away 
from the public, and we are transferring them to the state. 
  [Melikyan] Let us recall this: When too many gifts were 
bestowed upon the trade unions, they actually became a state 
structure. I believe that state-public structures can and should 
exist. Moreover, some functions can be performed by public 
organizations in their entirety. However, I think that this will 
not be done today or tomorrow. 
  I think that the role of the state should be significant for 
now and in the future. 

