Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by N. V. Rodionova, Radio Engineering and </F>
Electronics Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences; UDC 
528.852.8] 
  [Abstract] In image analysis important information on a 
feature is frequently contained in its boundaries. In many cases 
for the identification of a feature it is sufficient to analyze 
only its contour image, as first proposed by P. V. C. Hough. The 
Hough transform is effective in the secondary processing of 
radar images and this is illustrated in the example of 
identification of linear features. The Hough transform is 
applicable in many such problems, such as in remote prospecting 
for minerals and detection of the tracks of ships on radar 
images and distinguishing the tracks of ships from other linear 
oceanic features created by submarine topography and also in 
detecting ship size and its direction and speed of movement. 
However, emphasis here is on detection of a moving point target 
against the background of strong noise. The tracks of targets 
moving at a constant velocity are straight lines which can be 
detected using the Hough transform. The motion and direction of 
the target track, as well as the current position of the target, 
can be determined by this method. The principal advantage of use 
of this transform is its relative insensitivity to noise and 
gaps in contours. Matrix processors for performing the Hough 
transform with parallel processing on an on-line basis usable in 
both surface systems for processing images and aboard satellites 
have now been developed. Figures 3; references 13: 1 Russian, 12 
Western. 

