Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Friederike Tinnappel: ```Not Cocaine, but </F>
Poverty Makes Babies Sick'; In Hamburg, European Cities 
Discussed Their Drug Policy: Experts Warned Against Disparaging 
Certain Substances''] 
  [Text] ``Welcome to the cocaine country of Germany, welcome 
to the cocaine city of Hamburg,'' is how Sebastian Scheerer 
greeted the participants of the fourth conference, ``Drug Policy 
in European Cities,'' which concluded in the Hamburg Congress 
Center on Thursday [2 December]. ``Not even a mile from here, 
coca leaves are piled high in the harbor.'' And as if to make 
belated patent claims, the professor reminded the audience that 
the narcotic, cocaine, had been invented in Germany and was 
produced industrially there for the first time. Scheerer, a 
criminologist at Hamburg University, spoke almost effusively of 
the ``golden age of cocaine'' at the turn of the century, before 
it was outlawed in an international agreement after World War I. 
  Questioning conventional opinions and prevailing thought 
patterns has become a tradition at the annual meeting of those 
cities joined together under the motto, ``European Cities on 
Drug Policy'' (ECDP), to advance a joint liberal drug policy. At 
the 1992 meeting in Bologna, legalization of all drugs had been 
debated; now in Hamburg, the myth of all-destructive cocaine was 
to be refuted. 
  If one may give credence to the experts in attendance, then 
the horror stories about the misery allegedly brought on by 
cocaine and the cocaine product, crack, to entire city sections 
in the United States, are wrong. John Morgan of New York avowed 
that ``there are no crack babies.'' Those underdeveloped infants 
of crack-smoking women, called ``crack babies'' by the media, 
``were the children of particularly poor women--smokers, 
alcoholics--who also consumed cocaine. But the real cause is 
poverty. Morgan summarized the results of a study on ``crack 
babies,'' saying that ``a crack-consuming woman of the middle 
class would have a very healthy middle-class baby.'' But his 
compatriots tended to blame drugs for all social grievances. 
  The drug problem is ``predominantly a problem of the 
underclass,'' was also the opinion of Lynn Zimmer, who had also 
come from New York. ``Drugs are being sold in the streets of 
slums by people who have nothing else to lose. The police can 
arrest them without great ado.'' In the past 10 years, hundreds 
of thousands of these smalltime dealers have been put in prison. 
``No one in the United States believes that the drug problem can 
be resolved that way.'' But it is very difficult for the middle 
class to gain access to drugs as long as the substance is dealt 
only in ghettos. And precisely that is being made into policy. 
  It was said at the conference that, unlike heroin, crack and 
cocaine are not addictive. ``It is easy to stop using them,'' 
John Morgan assured the audience. It has not been proven that 
cocaine causes serious psychological damage, such as psychoses. 
Rather, there are many indications that the people concerned 
already were psychotic before they started using drugs. Scheerer 
advised particularly unstable people against using any drugs, 
``be it cocaine or alcohol.'' 
  But why is cocaine so disparaged? The criminology professor 
had an answer for that, too: The ``political dramatization'' is 
to distract from the fact that there ``are no actual problems'' 
with cocaine users, although there must be thousands who sniff 
the white powder, as one can estimate from the amounts 
confiscated. ``Cocaine consumers are socially integrated.'' 
Horst Bossong, put in charge of drugs by the Hamburg Senat, was 
also of the opinion that ``Europe has no truly serious cocaine 
problem.'' 
  The fact that this drug nevertheless became the subject of 
the conference was justified by Bossong by the hope of not 
having to make the same mistake twice. ``In dealing with 
consumption and consumers, perhaps we should pursue early on a 
policy different from that dealing with heroin.'' Of 12- to 
39-year-old German citizens, in 1990 only 0.8 percent had tried 
cocaine at least once; in a metropolis such as Hamburg it was 
2.5 percent, while in Amsterdam it was 6 percent, reported 
Charles Kaplan of the University of Limburg in the Netherlands. 
Kaplan presented a study on ``cocaine consumption in Europe.'' 
One conclusion: There is a trend that young outsiders, who are 
no longer ``socially integrated,'' use cocaine. Says Kaplan: 
``They need help.'' The study also proves that, unlike heroin, 
there does not have to be perforce a constant increase in the 
dosage, and that there are users who daily, weekly, or at even 
longer intervals reach for cocaine. Far more men than women use 
cocaine; most of them are between the ages of 20 and 40, but 
there are also coke users in the group of 50-year-olds. 
  And according to the experts at the conference, there is a 
difference between exclusive cocaine use and junkies who take 
cocaine in addition to heroin. While the former group ingests 
the white powder through the nose, heroin addicts inject it. But 
even criminologist Scheerer warned against injecting cocaine: 
``That is an entirely different story.'' 
  It is heroin addicts that pose so far unresolved problems 
for 
the cities. Dealing with open drug scenes is the ``acid test of 
drug policy'' for the Hamburg delegate for Labor, Health, and 
Social Affairs, Ortwin Runde (SPD) [Social Democratic Party]. 
The traditional offers of drug help have not reached many 
addicts. But even the so-called ``accepting drug help,'' which 
offers assistance to those affected without making willingness 
to a drug-free life a condition, does not go far enough. Runde 
advocated controlled heroin disbursement and the establishment 
of ``health rooms,'' where drugs can be consumed under sterile 
conditions and without time pressure. The first ``fixer rooms'' 
countrywide are to be opened in Hamburg in January 1994. The 
politician emphasized the importance of cooperation among cities 
which--unlike lawmakers--are directly afflicted by the drug 
problem. ``No city alone can implement the necessary radical 
first steps.'' That is why the ``city conference'' has developed 
into an international reform movement. 
  In addition to the 15 European cities which already 
cooperate 
firmly, two dozen other communities had sent delegations to 
Hamburg. For the first time, some southern German cities were 
also represented which up to now had endorsed a traditional, 
repressive drug policy. Also for the first time, London was 
there. Excluding the public, the discussion focused on how, in 
dealing with open drug scenes, a balance could be struck between 
repressive measures and offers of help, ``so that politicians 
really say what they think,'' stated one of the female 
organizers. That widely diverging opinions were represented in 
the debate, in the opinion of Swiss legal expert Joerg Schild 
was due to the fact ``that some cities have not yet done their 
homework.'' But even in Switzerland, where new ways have been 
tried for years and where, at the beginning of 1994, model 
attempts at controlled heroin distribution will start, one must 
admit: ``None of us have found the ideal solution.'' 

