Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Viktor Zamyatin, under the rubric "Cooperation </F>
Between Russian and the US in Space": "Russia Intends To Work 
Out an Equitable Partnership"; first paragraph is source 
introduction] 
  [Text] The Russian-American collaboration in space is 
gradually moving to a plane in which specific projects are being 
undertaken. During the U.S. visit that was wrapped up at the end 
of last week -- a visit by the Russian Space Agency (RSA) 
delegation, which was headed by the agency's director, Yuriy 
Koptev -- a detailed plan was coordinated for the creation of an 
international space station, which for now is being called 
Alpha. That plan was made public by the RSA head at a press 
conference yesterday, and it will go into effect after the 
signing of the agreement in December, when U.S. Vice President 
Al Gore visits Moscow. At the same time, the RSA and the 
American National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
will conclude a similar agreement, as well as a basic contract 
worth $350-370 million. 
  The new plan will replace two projects that existed 
independent of each other -- the American Freedom project, which 
in fact was closed down because of financial difficulties, and 
the Russian Mir-2, which Russia, too, lacks the money to 
complete by itself. Mr. Koptev noted that the participation in 
the creation of the Alpha station will be 2- to 2.5-fold cheaper 
for Russia than would the Mir-2 project. The first stage alone 
of the creation of Alpha (in which the Russian Protons and the 
American Shuttles will deliver to the Mir station additional 
equipment, and in which joint flights of Russians and Americans 
will take place) will enable Russian enterprises of the 
military-industrial complex to receive contracts worth $400 
million. The U.S. administration has promised to allocate that 
money to pay for the services of Russian firms in 1995-1997. In 
the second and third stages (the station is to be completed by 
the year 2001), the RSA head estimated that the figure may grow 
to $900 million. The plan, signed by the heads of the RSA and 
NASA in Washington, has already been sent for review to Congress 
and to the Russian government. 
  Mr. Koptev brushed aside the fears that the Americans would 
be the proprietors of the station. Russia is contributing to the 
project its own technologies and services, and, in his opinion, 
the overall balance will be in favor of Russia. In addition, the 
head of the RSA is convinced that the project itself is 
impossible without the equal participation of Russia in the 
creation of the station. It's true that for now, Russia is 
participating in it only as a partner. The European governments, 
as recently as October, were reviewing the question of the equal 
participation of Russia -- a final decision is to be issued in 
early December, and it is expected to be positive. Apparently, 
the Europeans are supported by their colleagues, the heads of 
the Japanese and Canadian space agencies, which, on the basis of 
the intergovernmental agreements of 1988 and the bilateral 
agreements of those agencies with NASA, are regarded as equal 
participants in the project for the international space station. 
  Russia must also resolve a number of specific questions with 
the European [Space] Agency regarding, for example, the flights 
of European astronauts on the Mir station. As for another aspect 
of the participation of Russia in international space programs 
--commercial launches of satellites -- Mr. Koptev noted that 
there are already a number of precontract proposals -- 
specifically, for the launch of the European satellite Astra 
atop the Proton launch vehicle. The Lockheed firm will handle 
the marketing for that. 

