BFN 

  [Text] Jiang Zemin and Li Peng have expressed great 
concern over the disaster situation in western Guangdong and 
have made telephone calls to express sympathy and solicitude for 
people in the disaster-stricken areas. 
  This morning, Jiang Zemin, CPC Central Committee general 
secretary, made a personal telephone call to the Guangdong 
Provincial CPC Committee to express concern over the situation 
in Zhanjiang City and Maoming City which were recently hit by a 
severe flood and a strong typhoon. 
  On the telephone, Jiang Zemin first inquired about the 
disaster situation in the two cities. After being told that the 
flood which hit the two cities had receded somewhat and that the 
Guangdong Provincial CPC Committee and People's Government are 
currently making every possible effort to organize people to 
combat the flood, provide disaster relief, and amke proper 
arrangement for people's livelihood in the disaster-stricken 
areas, Jiang Zemin said he felt deeply relieved. 
  General Secretary Jiang Zemin asked the Guangdong Provincial 
CPC Committee to pass his regards to people in the 
disaster-stricken areas and extend lofty respects to the broad 
masses of cadres, people, People's Liberation Army officers and 
soldiers, as well as armed police officers and armed policemen 
combating the flood and at the forefront of providing disaster 
relief. 
  The general secretary also expressed the hope that people in 
Guangdong's disaster-stricken areas will unite more closely, 
work harder, overcome difficulties, provide for and help 
themselves by engaging in production as soon as possible, reduce 
the losses caused by the disaster to a minimum, and strive to 
win a complete victory in combating the flood and providing 
disaster relief. 
  State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters 
yesterday 
sent a telegram to the Guangdong Provincial People's Government 
and the Guangdong Provincial Flood, Drought, and Forest Fire 
Control Headquarters, in which it relayed Premier Li Peng's 
concern, sympathy, and solicitude for people in Guangdong's 
disaster-stricken areas. 

