BFN 

  [Text] On 30 April, the Ministry of International Trade 
and Industry [MITI] decided to repeal three export-related laws: 
the Export Inspection Law, the Export Commodity Design Law, and 
the Law on Unified Trademarks for Export Commodities by Small 
and Medium Enterprises. All of the laws were enacted to improve 
the quality of manufactured goods exported by small and medium 
enterprises and promote the exports of manufactured goods by 
those enterprises. MITI, which is presently reviewing Japan's 
current trade system to relax bureaucratic regulations, has 
concluded that the three laws have finished their roles since 
Japan has shifted to a policy of boosting imports and the small 
and medium enterprises have made technological progress. 
  MITI intends to repeal the Export Inspection Law and the 
Export Commodity Design Law in 1997 and the Law on Unified 
Trademarks for Export Commodities by Small and Medium 
Enterprises this year. 
  The Export Inspection Law stipulates that manufactured goods 
designated by the government cannot be exported unless they pass 
export inspection; the government regulation designates 50 items 
that are manufactured mainly by small and medium enterprises and 
they include binoculars, eyeglasses, metal toys, silk fabrics, 
underwear, green tea, and soy source. The export inspection 
system under the law will be kept in effect if any small or 
medium enterprise wants their export goods inspected. 
  The Export Commodity Design Law stipulates that manufactured 
goods cannot be exported unless government offices in charge of 
export certification check whether the trademark of manufactured 
goods intended for export are identical with their registered 
trademark. Seven items, including fountain pens, furniture, and 
lacquer ware, are subject to the check. 

