BFN 

  [Text] Shenzhen, April 12 (CNS) -- The taking away of 
documents labelled as confidential by travellers departing 
through the Shenzhen Customs is rampant and the number of such 
cases uncovered by the Customs is on the rise. 
  Statistics released by the Luohu Customs on the Chinese side 
show that the Customs checked 20 such cases involving some 100 
confidential documents between last January and March. During 
the period between March 15 and 21 alone the Customs uncovered 
six cases in which several secret documents were discovered. 
  The taking away of state-level secret documents and 
information out of the border without prior application to the 
state department responsible for such secret information, 
according to the official in charge of the Shenzhen bureau 
responsible for the safeguarding of secret material, is in 
violation of the law and will be dealt with by the judicial 
department. The number of cases where confidential documents 
were being illegally brought out of the country through the 
Shenzhen Customs saw a sharp increase during the past six 
months. There were 49 such cases transferred from the Kowloon 
Customs to the Shenzhen bureau of secrets last year, a rise of 
nearly 100 percent over the year before and the number of these 
cases are showing an upward trend this year. 
  People who took secret documents through the customs are 
mainly Mainland personnel going to Hong Kong on business trips 
as well as overseas businessmen and the documents mainly deal 
with economic affairs and trade. 
  The official appealed to the public and especially to the 
customs officers to increase their awareness of the maintenance 
of secrecy. He also called for observation of the law and 
regulations by overseas visitors and said that they should not 
illegally obtain and take documents out of the country. 

