BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 17 Jun (NOTIMEX) -- Juan Fleites Melo, 
director of the state-owned Cuba Petroleum [CUPET] enterprise, 
confirmed here today that the enterprise has been talking with 
Mexpetrol, a privately-owned Mexican consortium, about using a 
Cuban refinery. Fleites said a letter of intent was signed 
"recently" by CUPET and Mexican enterprises for the latter to 
use the Cienfuegos refinery, located 336 km southeast from 
Havana. 
  Speaking for GRANMA INTERNATIONAL, the official declined to 
mention the investment required to activate this facility, which 
is capable of refining 21 million barrels of crude oil annually. 
  Although an agreement with Russia, the largest of the former 
Soviet republics, guarantees an annual exchange of 17.5 million 
barrels of oil for one million tons of sugar, Cuba requires at 
least 42 million barrels of oil per year. 
  The Cienfuegos refinery is one of the last projects built by 
the now defunct Soviet Union. Three years ago, Cuba began 
negotiating with several countries to reactivate the plant. 
  Fleites said foreign firms have invested approximately $120 
million prospecting for oil in Cuba and that 16 of the Cuban 
territory's 33 blocks have been auctioned off in international 
risk contracts. 
  CUPET is associated with Canada's CNW and Talisman firms; 
France's Total and Geopetrol; the UK's Premier and British 
Borneo; and Sweden's Taurus. 
  According to Fleites, the discovery of oil in the Bay of 
Cardenas in Matanzas Province in western Cuba "confirms the 
presence of hydrocarbons in the country." 

