Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Wakayama, March 10 KYODO -- Police on Thursday [10 
March] arrested a group of 91 Chinese for allegedly trying to 
sneak into Japan through a coastal town in Wakayama Prefecture 
and 16 other Chinese on suspicion of harboring the illegal 
immigrants. 
  Police caught the Chinese group in a sweep after they landed 
in Susami aboard several small boats early Thursday and tried to 
make their way to Osaka and Nagoya in 13 cars rented by the 
others, they said. The 16 Chinese accomplices had their 
passports, police said. 
  The 91 illegal immigrants, including 12 women, reportedly 
told police that some of them had come from China while others 
came from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. 
  Police suspect that a syndicate organization is behind the 
massive human smuggling scheme. Police had been tipped off by 
local residents who reported seeing the cars with Osaka and 
Nagoya plates. 
  There were two similar incidents of illegal entry by Chinese 
reported in the same vicinity in late 1993. Nearly 100 Chinese 
attempted to enter the country in November through a tiny port 
some 10 kilometers northwest of Susami but were detained by 
police. 
  Meanwhile, police in Nagoya arrested Karmann Tang, 26, from 
Hong Kong, on suspicion of preparing to help the illegal 
immigrants. Tang had 24 Shinkansen bullet trains tickets from 
Nagoya to Tokyo, police said. 
  He was quoted as saying that he was to meet the Chinese in 
Nagoya and send them to Tokyo and that his company had gone to 
"a remote beach" to pick up the immigrants. 
  Two men who appeared to be Chinese rented two trucks at a 
shop in Nagoya on Monday and police are investigating their 
connection with the case, they said. 
  Of the 91 Chinese who tried to enter Japan, the oldest is a 
39-year-old man and the youngest a 16-year-old girl, they said. 
The other 16 people arrested in Wakayama are between 22 and 36 
years old, and had passports from Singapore or Hong Kong, they 
said. 

