Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A. G. Grankov, Radio Engineering and Electronics </F>
Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow; UDC 
551.463:629.78] 
  [Abstract] In an earlier study by the author (ZHURN TEKHN. 
FIZIKI, Vol 60, No 10, pp 114-120, 1990) it is proposed that the 
position of the sensitivity maximum of the radiation field to 
OST (ocean surface temperature) be used instead of radio 
emission intensity as a quantitative OST characteristic. The 
effectiveness of the proposed microwave spectrometer method for 
determining OST in the presence of waves and cloud cover is 
analyzed on the basis of the dependence of OST of a calm water 
surface on the position of the spectral sensitivity maximum of 
the field of natural microwave radiation to OST variations. With 
variation of OST in the range of natural variability of the 
world ocean (from 0 to 30Î) the parameter _l_[.sup]m[/] 
(wavelength) changes from 8.5 to 3.5 cm respectively. The 
limiting heights of waves and cloud cover densities within which 
the method retains stability and ensures the required accuracy 
are determined. Tabulated data show that the microwave 
spectrometer method, applied in the form of a very simple 
algorithm, when the wind speed is up to 5-7 m/s has an accuracy 
in determining OST of about 1ÎC. An improved method is 
proposed which makes it possible to double or triple the range 
of meteorological conditions within which the error in 
determining OST does not exceed 1ÎC. The presence of 
well-developed cloud cover and foam formation on the water 
surface causes a considerable increase in the error in 
determining OST. Ocean areas with such conditions must be 
excluded from further examination or subjected to more complex 
processing. Figures 3; references: 6 Russian. 

