BFN 

<F P=106> [Article signed OM/WI/PI: "Demolition of Experimental </F>
Diorit Nuclear Plant Deemed `Irresponsible' by Swiss Energy 
Federation"] 
  [Text] Zurich, 3 Jun (ATS) -- The demolition of the 
remaining structure of the Diorit experimental reactor, which 
was designed by the Paul Scherrer Institute (IPS), is an 
"irresponsible" decision, according to the Swiss Energy 
Federation (FSE). In a statement released on Friday [3 June], 
it lists the reasons against the plan. The IPS does not share 
this point of view. 
  The Diorit experimental reactor was put into service in 1960 
to develop research in the field of reactor technology. Only 
the structure of the facility, which was closed down in 1977, 
remains. The reactor was dismantled in the 1980's. 
  In its statement, the FSE underlines that no reactor has 
ever 
been eliminated in Switzerland. The Federation fears that the 
five persons who will work during the demolition, which is to 
last two years, will be exposed to excessively high levels of 
radiation. The lack of experience, protection means, and 
equipment are other areas of concern. 
  The IPS admits that it would be easier to carry out this 
operation 15 to 20 years from now. However, it believes that 
the issue should be dealt with quickly so that the next 
generation does not have to worry about it. The institute also 
notes that the radiation level would only be three times higher 
than the average yearly level. The level would total 3 rem for 
two years, while the new federal regulation allows 2 rem per 
year. 
  The demolition of the Diorit reactor will produce 210 cubic 
meters of radioactive waste, according to the IPS. The waste 
will be cast in concrete and stored in Wuerenlingen, the 
institute's headquarters, before being transfered to a storage 
center for low radioactive waste. 

