BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report] </F>
  [Text] Following a visit by U.S. Secretary of Defense 
William Perry and NASA specialists to Ukraine, talks between the 
two countries' space agencies are expected to intensify in the 
near future. 
  Volodymyr Horbulin, director general of the National Space 
Agency of Ukraine [NKAU], believes, however, that the talks 
between NKAU and NASA will not concern cooperation in the 
production of rockets. The reason behind this is Ukraine's 
refusal to join the Nonproliferation Treaty [NPT]. Volodymyr 
Horbulin noted that Ukraine, which has unique rocket-building 
technologies, having refused to sign the NPT, has wasted one 
year, during which Russia has managed to establish comprehensive 
cooperation in the space industry with the United States. 
  NKAU and the Ministry of External Economic Relations are 
currently making considerable efforts to encourage Ukraine's 
joining the NPT. 
  During upcoming talks with NASA, NKAU will discuss the 
possibility of cooperation in conducting remote-controlled 
probes of earth from space and developing satellite 
telecommunication systems. The Ukrainian side is going to offer 
NASA a radar to study the ocean's surface, developed by the 
Pivdenne design bureau, and technology for electric welding and 
construction assembling in space, developed by the Paton 
Institute. 
  With the collapse of the USSR, Ukraine's space industry has 
suffered considerable losses such as, for example, the fact that 
the Pivdenne design bureau has lost 3,000 employees over the 
last two years. Volodymyr Horbulin refused to reveal how many 
people are currently employed by the Pivdenne design bureau, 
stating only that the number of people who have left the bureau 
"is huge." The director general of NKAU, however, emphasized 
that all the specialists who left the bureau are still working 
in Ukraine. 

