Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Sofia Wu] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, March 1 (CNA) -- Police arrested two drug 
dealers Tuesday [1 March] and confiscated 159 kilograms of 
mainland Chinese "Double Lion" heroin, marking the largest 
heroin seizure in Taiwan history. 
  The 443 small bricks of heroin have an estimated street 
value 
of NT$10 [new Taiwan dollars] billion (US$377.34 million), 
police said. 
  Police identified the drug dealers as Chang Chi-ching, 28, 
and Chang Ming-hui, 32. Both have close ties with international 
drug rings, according to an officer at the Taipei city police 
headquarters. 
  Police began an investigation of the two late last year 
after 
discovering they might have ties with a drug trafficking ring 
headed by Lin Kwang-cheng. Lin was arrested last December. 
  Police found that the two men had developed an islandwide 
drug distribution network and maintained close relations with 
international drug traffickers. 
  Chang Chi-ching told the police that the drugs seized in 
Tuesday's raid were smuggled into Taiwan from Bangkok in early 
February. 
  "The drugs were smuggled into Taiwan at the Chiching fishing 
port near Kaohsiung on the eve of the lunar new year holiday," 
Chang said. 
  He admitted that his ring used to smuggle heroin into Taiwan 
from Thailand's Golden Triangle and re-export the drug to the 
United States and Italy. Because of sluggish sales in the 
American and European markets in recent years, Chang said his 
group began to make inroads into the Southeast Asian market. 

