CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Chuang Jung-yen (8369 2837 1750): "Police and </F>
Prosecutors Jointly Crack a Huge Drug Dealing Ring, Arresting 33 
Drug Smugglers"] 
  [Text] The Shilin prosecutor's office and police department 
and the Taipei Central No 1 police department, after five months 
of sustained investigation, cracked a huge drug smuggling and 
dealing ring yesterday [28 March 1994], arresting 33 drug 
smugglers and their connections involved in the case in places, 
such as Taipei City and County, Chilung, Hsinchu, Nantou, 
Taoyuan, and Pingtung. While the seized drugs weighed only 15.6 
kg, the whole case involved a group effort by prosecutors, 
police, and the military, with an unflagging and persistent 
pursuit of up-, mid-, and down-stream drug smugglers. Since the 
government declared its "war on drugs," to bring all of its 
forces into play, this was a successful campaign in the spirit 
of "doing all possible to wipe out drugs." 
  Since launching this concerted anti-drug action in October 
1993, those engaged in the examination of the case, after 
scoring successes in both the north and south, yesterday 
arrested drug smuggler Kuan Ho-yuan [4619 0735 3293] in 
Pingtung. At the time of his arrest, as his wife tried to 
interfere in her capacity as vice president of the Chaochouchen 
representative assembly, a close-range gunfight broke out. 
While the suspect and Officer Kuo Tsung-chih [6753 1350 2535] 
of the Central No 1 police department were both wounded, neither 
wounds were life-threatening. 
  The police reported that the 33 arrested were Yang Si-ch'i 
[2799 1835 7871], Yang Kuo-lung [2799 0948 7127], Ch'en Shu-chen 
(f) [7115 3219 6297], Huang Kuo-pao 7806 0948 1405], Ch'en 
Kuang-hsien [7115 0342 6343], Ts'ai Ch'i-yu [5591 7496 1342], 
Lin Mei-yi [2651 5019 1355], Liu Lien-fang [0491 6647 5364], 
Kang Ming-p'ing [? 2494 1627], Wang Hsiu-chen (f) [3076 4423 
6297], Chung P'eng-t'eng [6945 7720 7506], Liu T'ai-shun [0491 
0669 7311], Lin Chung-hung [2651 1813 1738], Ch'en Shih-huang 
[7115 0013 3552], Kuo Chien-chih [6753 6015 1807], Liu 
Yung-ch'in [0491 3057 2953], Ch'en Ming-yueh [7115 2494 2588], 
Ch'en Chin-lung [7115 6855 7893], P'an Hsiu-wen [3382 4423 
7186], Chang Ch'ing-yu [1728 1987 5940], Yao Ying-han [1202 5391 
3352], Ch'en Chih-ming [7115 1807 2494], Chang Chien-neng [1728 
0494 5174], Chiang Jui-ch'ing [3068 3843 3237], Liu Yung-k'un 
[0491 3057 0981], Wu Lai-wang [0702 0171 2489], Wu Shih-t'ing 
[0702 4258 0080], Ch'en T'ien-sung 7115 1131 6623], Su Yung-chi 
[5685 0516 0679], Sun Fu-shou [1327 4395 1108], Lin Jui-hsiung 
[2651 3843 7160], Kuan Ho-yuan, and Kuan Wen-ling (f) [4619 7186 
5376]. 
  After the police cracked a street drug-dealing case in 
October 1993, they acted strictly in accordance with the 
anti-drug determination to declare a war on drugs of Executive 
Yuan President (Premier) Lien Chan, by actively developing its 
clues. As they acted boldly with strong will, as well as 
obtaining the full support of prosecutors, they were able to 
develop the case, expanding a minor drug case into a huge 
drug-dealing ring with connections in both the north and south. 
This was not only a brilliant strike by a combination of police 
and prosecutors, but also was a redeclaration of the 
government's determination to wipe out drugs. 
  It is understood that the Police Administration Bureau is 
pointing the banner of "anti-crime among public representatives" 
at public representatives at all levels involved in "drugs." It 
is expected that the police will increase their oversight and 
searches of public representatives at all levels who have drug 
histories and are suspected of using or dealing drugs, in order 
to put a stop to this "drug wave" that has been going on under 
the protection of public representatives. 

