Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by V. V. Ivashkin, V. V. Smirnov, Institute of </F>
Applied Mathematics imeni M. V. Keldysh, Russian Academy of 
Sciences; UDC 629] 
  [Abstract] The probability of a collision between the Earth 
and an asteroid such as Amor, Apollo, or Aton is not at all 
small. The work reported here consists of the results of a 
preliminary analysis of the use of various methods for 
preventing such a collision, all of which involve changing the 
asteroid's orbit: space vehicle impact; delivery and attachment 
of a large-thrust engine to the asteroid; attachment of 
low-thrust electroreactive engines; attachment of a solar sail; 
and changing the color (thus, the reflective properties) of the 
asteroid's surface. Prevention of the collision is considered to 
be guaranteed if the flyby distance is at least 1 million 
kilometers. The asteroid, in the calculations, is taken to be a 
sphere with a density of 3 g/cm[.sup]3[/]. Estimates are made 
for asteroids with radii of 5 m, 50 m, and 500 m and masses of 
1.57 x 10[.sup]6[/] tons and 1.57 x 10[.sup]9[/] tons. 
After a comparative analysis of the methods, the researchers 
chose the impact method as the most effective method and a 
method that could be performed with existing technology. 
Numerical estimates are given for the asteroid Toutatis, which 
flew by Earth in December 1992. The work was performed in the 
context of an agreement with the International Institute of 
Problems of Asteroid Hazards under the Toutatis-B2 grant. 
Figures 2, references 4 (Russian). 

