Language: <F P=105> Japanese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Part 1 of 4-part article on Nuclear Power White Paper's </F>
focus on nuclear fuel recycling] 
  [Text] 
<H5>  Introduction </H5>
  The 1993 White Paper on nuclear energy has been compiled. 
The 
unique features of this year's White Paper is that it focuses on 
``nuclear fuel recycling'' --the reuse of plutonium, etc., 
analyzes the situation in Japan and abroad, and expresses more 
clearly than before the significance of Japan's adoption of 
nuclear fuel recycling. Here, we will introduce trends in 
nuclear fuel recycling, using the White Paper as a guide. 
  This year's White Paper, as last year's, is composed of 
three 
sections: ``General Discussion,'' which summarizes the current 
status and future issues in the development and use of nuclear 
energy; ``Discussion of Individual Issues,'' which presents the 
state of progress made during the year on individual issues, and 
``Materials.'' The opening of the general discussion section 
addresses the internal and international status of nuclear fuel 
recycling and ``work toward revision of the long-term plan for 
development and use of nuclear energy.'' 
  In this White Paper, a new status was given to 
``international contribution to development of the future'' in 
the context of Japan's promotion of nuclear fuel recycling. It 
expresses the perception that nuclear fuel recycling is 
``technological energy made from the application of science and 
technology, and is the international obligation of Japan, a 
large consumer of energy that does not have its own energy 
resources and a country with advanced technological capability 
in the field of nuclear energy.'' 
  This is more explicit than last year's White Paper, which 
cites ``carrying out the role of a country that is a global 
driving force for the peaceful use of nuclear energy.'' This 
probably was the outcome of the judgement that in view of 
concerns about global nuclear proliferation and the slowdown of 
R&amp;D on nuclear fuel recycling in Germany and other advanced 
nuclear energy countries, it is necessary to re-clarify the 
significance of nuclear fuel recycling. 
  The Japan Atomic Energy Commission (JAEC) is working on 
revising the long-term plan for development and use of nuclear 
energy with a view toward the 21st Century, and the majority 
opinion of the commission is that emphasis should be given to 
nuclear fuel recycling from the position of Japan's 
international contribution. Along with this, someone involved 
with the JAEC indicated that ``promoting recycling from the 
viewpoint of waste processing'' may be stated as a reason for 
promoting nuclear fuel recycling. 
  What nuclear power proponents have in mind is not just 
plutonium use but also the promotion of ``actinide recycling,'' 
which entails using fast reactors to burn transuranic elements 
(TRU) that are in high-level radioactive waste (HLW). It may be 
possible to drastically reduce the burden of waste control 
through annihilation disposal of long-lived TRU that require 
long-term control in 10,000-year increments. 
  The mainstream of fast reactor research in the United States 
and France has shifted to actinide recycling, and the Power 
Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Development Corporation has entered 
into full-scale research cooperation with each country. Although 
the white paper did not touch upon this matter, it is highly 
possible that the long-term plan will in some form incorporate a 
partial review of the idea of plutonium breeding. 
  In this White Paper, a distinction is made between the 
``nuclear fuel cycle,'' as the nuclear fuel flow that begins 
with uranium exploration and enrichment, and ``nuclear fuel 
recycling,'' as the reuse of fuel. Quite a few people think that 
``recycling'' is starting to be emphasized because it will be 
well-received by the public in these days of heightened interest 
in environmental problems. 

