BFN 

<F P=106> [Announcer-read report over video] </F>
  [Text] Justice Minister Nagano held a news conference this 
afternoon to clarify his remarks that the Nanjing atrocity is a 
fabrication. During the news conference, he said his remarks 
were inappropriate and retracted his controversial remarks. 
  [Begin Nagano recording] My recent remarks regarding Japan's 
past history were inappropriate and I would like to retract them. 
  With regard to the Nanjing atrocity [kakyusatsu], as I just 
said a while ago, I do not deny its occurrence. I think that the 
Nanjing atrocity was a very unfortunate incident. I also 
believe that the Nanjing atrocity was an incident for which 
Japan must apologize to the Chinese people. [end recording] 
  As for the question of his resignation, Justice Minister 
Nagano told the news conference: I talked by telephone with 
Prime Minister Hata last night. I and Prime Minister Hata share 
the same perception of the war. I will follow instructions from 
Prime Minister Hata who appointed me to the post of justice 
minister. In this way, he indicated that he will follow 
instructions from Prime Minister Hata who is due to return to 
Japan tomorrow. 
  During an interview with MAINICHI SHIMBUN, Justice Minister 
Nagano said that the Nanjing atrocity is a fabrication. In 
reaction to Nagano's reported remarks, Chinese President Jiang 
Zemin has expressed his displeasure with Nagano's statement and 
the Chinese Foreign Ministry has formally asked the Japanese 
Government to clarify his statement. In this way, the justice 
minister's remarks have triggered an international controversy. 
Prime Minister Hata issued a statement in Paris that the justice 
minister's remarks are inappropriate. 

