BFN 

  [Text] Pyongyang, March 31 (KCNA) -- The countryside of 
Korea is alive with spring farming. 
  Agricultural working people across the country are sowing 
seed rice on cold-beds as demanded by the chuche method of 
farming to bring another bumper harvest this year. 
  Cooperative farmers in South Hwanghae and South Pyongan 
Provinces situated in the western region of the country are 
sowing seed rice on a scientific and technical basis with 
efficient machines including seedling-bed-hardening, sowing and 
fertilizer-spreading machines. 
  Humus pots of maize seedlings are being made briskly. Their 
making had progressed 70 percent nationwide as of March 26. It 
has already been completed on the cooperative farms in North 
Pyongan and North Hwanghae Provinces and Pyongyang municipality. 
  Carpeting fields with humus soil and the production of 
compost and its carriage to the fields have been completed ten 
odd days earlier than last year on all the cooperative farms. 
  Spring ploughing is being accelerated with the increase of 
the operation rate of tractors. Thousands of hectares of paddy 
and non-paddy fields have been tilled in a few days after the 
ploughing began in Chongdan, Yonan, Paechon, Sinchon and Anak 
Counties, South Hwanghae Province, and in Sukchon, Pyongwon and 
Mundok Counties, South Pyongan Province. 
  Irrigation water is flowing into the fields upon the 
completion of the ploughing. 
  Industrial establishments are actively assisting agriculture 
materially and technologically. Factories serving agriculture 
including the Kumsong general tractor works, the Hungnam 
fertilizer complex and the Haeju trailing farm machine factory 
are producing tractors, farm machines and chemical fertilizers 
in large quantities and sending them to the countryside. 

