Language: <F P=105> Korean </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Suwon-based correspondent Im Ku-pin: "Warning of </F>
Emergency Guard Against Rabies in Kyonggi and Kangwon Area"] 
  [Text] Residents and domestic animals infected with rabies 
have been discovered in Yonchon in Kangwon Province and Chorwon 
and Hwachon in Kangwon Province, as well as in the area near the 
Demilitarized Zone where the entry of civilians is restricted, 
thus indicating an outbreak of rabies. Therefore, the Kyonggi 
Provincial government plans to inoculate 22,000 cows and dogs in 
northern Kyonggi Province. On 25 February, a neighborhood 
meeting was held in 553 places to discuss measures against 
rabies and a propaganda campaign on the prevention of rabies was 
conducted. 
  Meanwhile, the Domestic Animal Sanitation Research Institute 
in the Agricultural Promotion Agency recommended to the Ministry 
of Agriculture and Fisheries that the northern district in 
Kyonggi Province be designated as the first district for the 
prevention of rabies. 
  It was learned that rabies broke out in the Chorwon and 
Hwachon area last year, too, and that raccoons and wild cats 
that came to the villages to find food infected the dogs and 
cows by biting them in a fight. 
  The provincial government also requested the military units 
to shoot these animals to death as soon as they are found, and 
handed down a directive to each county and city to slaughter the 
infected cows and dogs. 

