BFN 

  [Excerpt] Jakarta -- President Suharto on Monday reminded 
all countries of the need to build treatment centres for 
hazardous and toxic wastes, saying that Indonesia and other 
developing countries do not want to be dumping places of those 
wastes. 
  "The construction of an industrial waste treatment centre 
reflects self-reliance in handling its own hazardous and toxic 
wastes," President Suharto said during the inauguration of the 
industrial waste treatment centre in Cileungsi, south of Jakarta. 
  The waste treatment centre, managed by P.T. [Company 
Limited] 
Prasada Pamunah Limbah Industry, is jointly owned by the 
Bimantara Citra Group, the Waste Management International of 
Britain, and the Environmental Impact Management Agency 
(Bapedal), a government body. 
  The president said the construction of the hazardous waste 
treatment centre also shows that Indonesia is committed to an 
agreement reached during the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil in 1992 on environment-oriented development. 
  He also said that the well-guided management of industrial 
waste would make Indonesian products more competitive at the 
international market on the grounds that many foreign countries 
had issued import regulations and requirements linked to the 
conservation of nature. 
  Attending the ceremony were First Lady Tien Suharto, House 
Speaker Sutejo [name and title as published], State Minister for 
National Development Planning/Head of the National Development 
Planning Board Ginanjar Kartasasmita, and Minister of 
Administrative Reforms T.B. Silalahi. 
  Earlier, State Minister of Environment Sarwono Kusumaatmaja 
reported to the president that as many as 23 companies handed 
over 43 kinds of wastes to the Waste Treatment Centre (PPLI) 
which has the capacity to process some 88,000 tons of waste. 
[passage omitted] 

