Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporter Zhu Youdi (2612 1635 2769)] </F>
  [Text] Beijing, 14 Feb (XINHUA) -- China has achieved new 
results in geological prospecting of the Nansha [Spratly] 
Islands: The 1993 geophysical survey was completed in an 
all-round manner, and so was the structure appraisal of the six 
traps in the Wanan Basin, thereby providing invaluable data for 
the further prospecting of oil gas resources on the islands. 
  The Nansha Islands are located in the southern part of the 
South Sea, having a total of 193 named reefs, shoals, submerged 
reefs, and hidden shoals. The results of the survey show that 
the islands are composed of atolls of coral reefs and shoals. 
The rings run from northeast to southwest, covering 560 
nautical miles from north to south -- from the Liyuetan at the 
northernmost to Zengmuansha at the southernmost -- and 400 
nautical miles from east to west in the vast waters within 
China's traditional boundary. Since 1987, China's geology and 
mineral resource department has successively dispatched "Ocean 
No. 4" and "Struggle No. 4" prospecting ships on geological 
survey missions in Nansha waters. The ships completed 
comprehensive geological and geophysical survey plans in Zengmu 
and Wanan basins on four voyages; and conducted 20,000 km 
seismogram and related fathoming, gravity, and magnetic tests, 
obtaining some survey and research results. The Chinese Academy 
of Sciences' South Sea Oceanography Institute also carried out 
some geophysical surveys in the waters. 
  It is understood that a series of Cenozoic sedimentary 
basins 
with different structures and rich oil and natural deposits have 
developed in the Nansha waters. Of these basins, Wanan, Zengmu, 
Wenlai-Shaba, Balawang, and Liyue have the greatest potential. 
The basins falling within China's traditional boundary total 
290,000 sq [square] km in area. Zengmu, a large foreland-type 
Cenozoic sedimentary basin, has developed thick marine 
fragmentary deposits and carbonate deposits. The basin, where 
the thickness of deposits generally ranges from 4,000 to 7,000 
meters with the thickest part reaching 11,000 meters, has 
several fine combinations of oil gas formation and reserve 
covers [you qi sheng chu gai 3111 3049 3932 0328 5556]. So far 
foreign petroleum companies have already discovered and 
exploited some 40 oil gas fields and oil-bearing structures. 
Wanan, a medium-large shearing pull-apart Cenozoic sedimentary 
basin, has also developed thick continental and marine deposits, 
with the thickness generally ranging from 5,000 to 7,000 meters; 
and the basis has several fine combinations of oil gas formation 
and reserve covers, too. During the 1991-92 physical and 
seismic general surveys, China successively discovered 17 large 
and medium partial structural traps. Results of seismic surveys 
conducted on six of the traps last year have laid a fine 
foundation for marine drilling and prospecting in the future. 

