Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 15 Mar (PL) -- The main applications of 
nuclear techniques in Cuban agriculture include the genetic 
improvement of crops, diagnostic control of seeds, and insect 
radiobiology to reduce the use of pesticides. 
  Dr. Adolfo Rodriguez Nodals, director of the Institute of 
Basic Research on Tropical Agriculture [Inifat], said that they 
are also working on developing the Nitrogen 15 marking system 
[marcaje] to improve fertilizers. 
  Rodriguez Nodals explained that over 20 scientific 
organizations, which constitute the Group for the Research and 
Application of Nuclear Techniques in Agriculture [GIATNA], are 
participating in this project. In less than six years since its 
creation, GIATNA is experimenting with cutting-edge technologies. 
  According to a communique from the UN Food and Agriculture 
Organization [FAO] that was disclosed recently, modern 
agriculture can be productive because it efficiently uses new 
scientific and technological knowledge. 
  Just when FAO General Director Jacques Diouf advocated a 
"new 
agricultural revolution," Cubans are proving the effectiveness 
of the application of novel techniques on crops. 
  The yield of three rice varieties through the use of 
radiation to induce new genetic characteristics in plants is 
among the scientific results obtained by Cubans, and it 
exemplifies the peaceful use of nuclear technologies. 
  In addition to this, progress is being made in the 
application of radioactive isotopes in phosphoric fertilizers 
and the training of personnel in dosimetry and radiation safety. 
  The 200 researchers of Inifat, which was established in 1904 
as Cuba's central agricultural research station and which was 
considered back then unique in Latin America, are working in the 
areas mentioned. 

