BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, April 25 (CNS) -- According to the State 
Bureau of Oceanography, China has seen increasing damage of its 
resources in its coastal areas, posing a danger to the original 
coastal scenery and to the ocean ecology and leading to an 
adverse affect on tourism and economic development there. 
  It is reported that Xiamen, a coastal city in Fujian 
Province 
has seen excessive removal of sand along its coastline and 
unplanned construction of buildings and real estate development, 
with the result that a bathing beach near Xiamen University is 
suffering sand loss with the sand cover there becoming thinner 
from the original depth of more than 10 centimetres to less than 
one centimetre while 3.8 kilometres of beach there is now almost 
totally filled with rubbish and waste. 
  Such conditions are now also seen in Hainan with over 70,000 
mu of beach area in Lushui County being severely damaged by 
rampant mining of titanium, leaving many hillocks and hollows 
there. On February 19, a beach near the Xinhai forestry centre 
was found to have been damaged by illegal removal and selling of 
sand, and such destruction, if it continues, will endanger the 
whole coastline there, posing a safety problem to the nearby 
coastal road. 
  A circular recently issued by the State Bureau of 
Oceanography pointed out that the ocean environment and 
resources was the base for people's lives. Recovery of the 
damaged environment and resources are very difficult to redress 
and will pose a direct and potential threat to the economic 
development and people's livelihood there. 

