CSO 

<F P=106> [Article: "Jilin Provincial Statistical Bureau Statistical </F>
Report on 1993 National Economic and Social Development"] 
  [Text] In 1993 under the guidance of Comrade Deng 
Xiaoping's important speech and the spirit of the 14th Party 
Congress and given impetus by the magnificent goal of 
establishing a developed border and coastal province, the 
province increased the pace of reform and opening up, put forth 
a great effort to develop the socialist market economy, 
enthusiastically implemented macroeconomic control policies, 
promoted rapid and sound development of the national economy, 
and laid a firm material foundation for the economy to jump to a 
new level in three years. Annual industrial and agricultural 
production grew rather fast, fixed asset investment experienced 
strong growth, internal and external trade was active, and the 
rate of overall economic development was further accelerated. 
According to preliminary statistics, annual provincial gross 
domestic product (GDP) reached 67.05 billion yuan, a 14.3 
percent increase over the previous year. Within that the 
increased value of tertiary industry was 16.74 billion yuan, a 
17.3 percent increase, making up 25 percent of the GDP. But the 
rapid growth of the economy made the contradictions among the 
many types of economic relations in the conversion from the old 
to new system more obvious. The growth of light industry was 
sluggish, the growth of basic industries was slow, large and 
medium-sized state enterprise operations were difficult, price 
increases were high, and the performance of the overall economy 
was not sufficiently ideal. 
  I. Agriculture 
  Overall agricultural production developed steadily. In 1993 
throughout the province, practical measures were adopted to 
further strengthen the basic position of agriculture, promote 
overall growth of agricultural production, and begin to put 
agriculture on the road to high production, high quality, and 
high efficiency. For the year, agriculture achieved an added 
value of 15.15 billion yuan, a 6.5 percent increase over the 
previous year, making up 22.6 percent of the GDP. 
  The planting industry, oriented by the market, rationally 
adjusted the structure of planting and overcame unfavorable 
climatic affects such as drought, waterlogging, storms, and low 
temperatures in some regions and put forth a great effort to 
develop scientific and technical activity to make agriculture 
prosper and ensured a good harvest for crops. It was the 
province's second highest year in history for grain production. 
The annual added value for the planting industry was 10.64 
billion yuan, a 5.3 percent increase over the previous year. 
  Production for major agricultural products was as follows: 


                                          1993              Increase From 
                                                            Previous Year 
                                                            (percent) 

Grain                                     19.009 million    3.3 
                                          tons 

Within that:          Corn                13.446 million    1.4 
                                          tons 

                      Paddy               2.89 million      -4.6 
                                          tons 

                      Soybeans            1.081 million     43.4 
                                          tons 

Oil-bearing Crops                         286,000 tons      -20.1 

Within that:          Sunflower Seeds     178,000 tons      -36.0 

Sugar Beets                               972,000 tons      5.9 

Cured Tobacco                             40,000 tons       -27.9 

Hemp                                      3,000 tons        -19.2 

Orchard Produce                           21,000 tons       5.2 

Vegetables                                4.915 million     9.9 
                                          tons 

Melons (used for                          534,000 tons      -1.0 
fruit) 


  Development of diversified operations continues to 
accelerate. With further sound development of the rural market 
system and improvement in the commercialization of livestock 
products, especially the establishment throughout the province 
of twenty cattle-raising base counties (cities), impetus has 
been given to the pace of development of livestock commodity 
bases, spurring the steady growth of provincial livestock 
production. The annual increased value of the livestock industry 
was 3.45 billion yuan, a 13.9 percent increase over the previous 
year. 
  Major livestock product production and livestock on hand 
figures are as follows: 


                                         1993               Increase From 
                                                            Previous Year 
                                                            (percent) 

Pork, Beef, and                          579,000 tons       15.6 
Mutton 

Within that:         Pork                483,000 tons       12.6 

                     Beef                85,000 tons        37.6 

Milk                                     94,000 tons        -14.6 

Eggs                                     327,000 tons       7.3 

Sheep's Wool                             9,837 tons         8.8 

Pork Hogs Removed                        5.147 million      10.8 
From Inventory                           head 

Year-end Hog Count                       5.679 million      4.2 
                                         head 

Year-end Large                           3.603 million      5.6 
Livestock Count                          head 

Within that:         Year-end Cattle     2.419 million      8.5 
                     Count               head 

Year-end Sheep                           2.419 million      6.3 
Count 


  New progress was achieved in forestry production and 
greening. In 1993 throughout the province, forested area was 
110,000 hectares, a 5.7 percent increase over the previous year. 
Throughout the province, the rate of forest cover reached 37.9 
percent and forest fire protection achieved the good results of 
13 successive years without a major fire. The annual increased 
value achieved by forestry was 360 million yuan, a 5.0 percent 
increase over the previous year. 
  Fishery production continued to develop. Annual aquatic 
product production was 98,000 tons, a 15.3 percent increase over 
the previous year. Annual increased value for fisheries was 300 
million yuan, a 64.7 percent increase over the previous year. 
  Township enterprises, on the base of the extraordinary 
leaping development of the previous year, continued to develop 
rapidly and have become an important driving force in the rapid 
growth of the provincial economy. For the year, township 
enterprises achieved a total output value of 33.2 billion yuan 
and achieved profit taxes of 3.81 billion yuan, increases of 
48.5 percent and 35.6 percent, respectively, over the previous 
year. 
  Measures to promote the development of agricultural 
production were further increased and the finance and banking 
sectors continued to be slanted toward agriculture. Bank and 
credit union agricultural loans had a net increase of 620 
million yuan. Enthusiasm for science and technology to make 
agriculture prosper continued to rise. The provincial finance 
department invested 5.3 million yuan in starter funds and awards 
funds to popularize agricultural scientific and technical 
achievements and also invested 20 million yuan in deducted 
interest loans to be directly used to popularize new technology 
and develop new products. Throughout the province, more than 
20,000 scientific and technical personnel are participating in 
new rural technology and new popularization projects. There were 
as many as 285 popularization projects. Party and government 
departments at every level by every means possible are 
lightening farmers' burdens. They have abolished 45 unreasonable 
burdens and aroused farmers' enthusiasm to plant grain. 
  II. Industry and Construction 
  In 1993 industry and construction production throughout the 
province maintained its strong growth and was an important 
mainstay to rapid provincial economic development. Increased 
value of secondary industry for the year was 35.16 billion yuan, 
a 17.6 percent increase over the previous year, making up 52.4 
percent of the GDP. 
  Provincial industrial enterprises thoroughly implemented the 
Regulations, intensified reform, actively converted operating 
mechanisms, improved their structure, improved product quality, 
expanded production closely centered on the market, developed 
domestic and foreign markets, and maintained rather rapid growth 
in both production and sales. Industry achieved an annual 
increased value of 30.82 billion yuan, an increase of 17.4 
percent over the previous year, making up 46.0 percent of the 
GDP. In overall industry, production of other economic types and 
collective industrial enterprises developed rapidly and the 
vitality of large and medium-sized state enterprises increased 
somewhat. The annual added value of state industries increased 
by 16.0 percent over the previous year and the added value of 
large- and medium-sized industries increased by 26.7 percent. 
  The pulling power of investment on provincial industrial 
production was obvious. The growth of heavy industry with the 
vigorous pulling power of investment demand soared. For the 
year, the added value of heavy industry at the township level 
and above was 19.18 billion yuan, a 39.1 percent increase over 
the previous year. Growth in the production volume of such 
industries as machinery, construction materials, and metallurgy 
was rather great. Growth of light industry production was weak 
because it lacked a base, had few high-demand products, and was 
low in competitiveness. Annual added value for light industry 
was 5.96 billion yuan, a 3.6 percent increase over the previous 
year, and production of some products such as home appliances 
and textiles declined. 
  Production volume of major industrial products was as 
follows: 


                                             1993            Increase From 
                                                             Previous Year 
                                                             (percent) 

Cloth                                        144 million     -20.6 
                                             meters 

Synthetic Fibers                             35,200 tons     4.3 

Woolens                                      4.696 million   -20.1 
                                             meters 

Machine-made Paper                           555,000 tons    -9.6 
and Cardboard 

Beer                                         620,100 tons    25.3 

Cigarettes                                   705,200 cases   6.9 


Sugar                                        106,600 tons    7.9 

Synthetic                                    17,500 tons     5.0 
Detergent 

Bicycles                                     83,500          -58.8 

Watches                                      1.1663          2.4 
                                             million 

TV Sets                                      106,600         -43.6 

Of which:            Color TV Sets           61,000          -53.4 

Home Washing                                 284,400         -1.2 
Machines 

Home Refrigerators                           172,400         23.0 


Plastic Products                             84,700 tons     -11.3 

Total Volume of 
Primary Energy 
Production 

(converted to                                24.3408         3.3 
standard coal)                               million tons 

Raw Coal                                     24.0992         1.4 
                                             million tons 

Crude Oil                                    3.38 million    -2.0 
                                             tons 

Processing Volume                            4.1479          -2.4 
of Crude Oil                                 million tons 

Generating Volume                            23.506          17.2 
                                             kilowatt 
                                             hours 

Of which:            Hydroelectricity        5.027 billion   41.7 
                                             kilowatt 
                                             hours 

Finished Steel                               982,800 tons    7.9 

Ten Types of                                 42,500 tons     25.8 
Nonferrous Metals 

Ferroalloys                                  290,900 tons    16.1 

Lumber                                       4.6759          6.6 
                                             million cubic 
                                             meters 

Plate Glass                                  2.2327          6.7 
                                             million heavy 
                                             cases 

Cement                                       6.6364          15.9 
                                             million tons 

Sulfuric Acid                                112,300 tons    -0.8 

Soda Ash                                     26,300 tons     431.5 

Caustic Soda                                 88,400 tons     -2.8 

Synthetic Ammonia                            435,600 tons    -11.3 

Chemical             (converted to pure      283,200 tons    -5.2 
Fertilizer           volume) 

Calcium Carbide                              88,500 tons     -1.8 

Plastics                                     65,000 tons     9.5 

Tires                                        833,800         -29.2 

Metal Cutting                                2,350           12.1 
Machine Tools 

Automobiles                                  177,000         10.6 

Tractors                                     1,293           -52.1 

Small Tractors                               24,600          -55.2 

Railroad Passenger                           882             6.9 
Cars 


  State industrial enterprises have made rather great strides 
in intensifying reform and converting operating mechanisms. In 
1993, 2,800 industrial enterprises throughout the province 
extended comprehensive experimental reforms in such areas as 
labor and personnel, wage allocation, social insurance, and 
training and testing, and in 321 industrial enterprises they 
broadened experiments in opening up operations and converting 
mechanisms. Smooth progress was achieved, especially in 
experiments with the stock system. A total of 201 industrial 
enterprise corporations and limited liability companies were 
approved, with total capital reaching 8.65 billion yuan. 
  The industrial economic performance improved somewhat, but 
not very ideally. In 1993 composite indicators of the economic 
performance of independently accounted industrial enterprises at 
the township level and above calculated for six indices of 
economic performance were 80.6 percent, a 10.4 percentage point 
improvement over the previous year. Within that, the profit tax 
rate on industrial funds was 7.3 percent and the sales rate for 
industrial products was 96.1 percent, a 0.9 percentage point 
improvement. For the year, they achieved 8.14 billion yuan in 
profit taxes, a 39.6 percent increase over the previous year. 
Throughout the province, losing enterprises greatly increased 
and the loss rate rose, eroding large-quantity profits. For the 
year, there were 2,466 losing enterprises with losses of 2.94 
billion yuan, and the ratio of losses to profits reached as high 
as 51.8 percent. Products were overstocked and enterprise bank 
interest burdens were heavy, becoming the two major obstacles to 
the mobility of enterprise funds. 
  Construction industry production developed rapidly. In 1993 
throughout the province, the construction industry achieved an 
added value of 4.34 billion yuan, a 20.0 percent increase over 
the previous year. Economic performance of state construction 
enterprises rebounded somewhat. All personnel labor productivity 
reached 22,497 yuan, a 15.0 percent increase over the previous 
year. The area of housing construction was 10.834 million square 
meters, an 8.0 percent increase over the previous year. It 
achieved total profit taxes of 310 million yuan, a 5.6 percent 
increase over the previous year, and the quality of construction 
products improved somewhat. 
  Geological surveys and prospecting made new progress. For 
the 
year, geological prospecting mechanical core drilling was 27,000 
meters, with three new mineral producing sites discovered, and 
there was one newly increased mineral reserve verified. 
  III. Fixed Asset Investment 
  There was a strong increase in fixed asset investment, 
accumulating a reserve for sustained steady coordinated 
development of the economy. For the year, the whole society 
achieved 23.21 billion yuan in fixed asset investment, a 53.6 
percent increase over the previous year. Within that, state unit 
investment was 19.81 billion yuan, a 62.8 percent increase; 
collective unit investment was 1.19 billion yuan, a 2.5 percent 
decline; and urban and rural individual investment was 2.21 
billion yuan, a 28.5 percent increase. For the year, new starts 
increased greatly and the scale of construction expanded. 
Throughout the province, there were 1,729 state unit capital 
construction and transformation and renovation new starts of 
50,000 yuan or higher. For the whole society, the total scale of 
construction projects was 58.33 billion yuan, a 39.2 percent 
increase. 
  Within state unit investment, investment in capital 
construction was 10.45 billion yuan, a 68.3 percent increase 
over the previous year; transformation and renovation investment 
was 4.93 billion yuan, a 45.0 percent increase; investment in 
commercial housing construction was 3.21 billion yuan, a 124.5 
percent increase; and other investment was 1.22 billion yuan, an 
8.0 percent increase. From the perspective of subordination, 
central projects completed 7.7 billion yuan in investments, a 
70.0 percent increase over the previous year, and local projects 
completed 12.11 billion yuan in investments, a 58.5 percent 
increase. 
  Within state unit investment, tertiary industries completed 
8.81 billion yuan in investments and increased their share to 
44.5 percent from 33.6 percent the previous year. Within that, 
transportation and post and telegraph investment was 2 billion 
yuan, raising their share from 6.7 percent to 10.1 percent; 
secondary industry investment was 10.73 billion yuan, with their 
share declining from 65.1 percent to 54.2 percent. Within that, 
investment in the energy industry was 3.47 billion yuan, with 
their share declining from 24.9 percent to 17.5 percent, and raw 
material investment was 2.85 billion yuan, with its share 
declining from 15.9 percent to 14.4 percent. 
  The pace of key construction accelerated. Nineteen large- 
and 
medium-sized capital construction projects of state units listed 
in the state plan completed 4.35 billion yuan in investment. 
Within that, the Hunjiang third stage generating plant project 
and the Shuangyang Cement Factory totally completed construction 
and went into production and part of such projects as the Jilin 
Oilfield, the Jilin transformer project, the Number One 
Automobile Factory, and the Changbai Mountain and Forest Region 
development, completed construction and went into production. 
Eleven renewal projects listed in the state plan above the quota 
invested 510 million yuan. Within that, the Siping Grease 
Chemical Factory, the Tonghua Two-way River Generating Plant, 
and the Changchun Telecommunications Bureau telephone network 
projects completed construction and went into production. Of 174 
technology upgrading projects of 100 enterprises under 
provincial administration, fifty completed construction and went 
into production. Major projects directly related to the strength 
of provincial economic development proceeded smoothly. All 
together, such projects as the Dazhong Automobile Company, Ltd's 
150,000 car project, the Jilin Chemical Industry's 300,000 ton 
ethylene project, the Shuangliao Generating Plant's 300,000 
kilowatt generating unit project, the Tonghua Steel Company's 1 
million ton steel project, and the Char Reservoir reservoir and 
irrigation area project with 253 million yuan invested are being 
earnestly developed. The project in Changchun to "divert water 
from the Song to the Changjiang," the largest infrastructure 
project since the founding of the country, is getting people's 
attention. In October it had the foundation stone laying 
ceremony. The Tu-Hui Railroad has had test run trains, the 
Si-Chang high-speed highway entered the land levying and removal 
stage, and such projects as the Jilin Synthetic Medicine Base 
are being prepared. 
  Throughout the province, state unit investment in capital 
construction and transformation and renovation during the year 
had 1,488 projects that completed construction and went into 
production. New increases in fixed assets were 7.3 billion yuan, 
the annual rate of fixed assets made available for use was 47.5 
percent. Newly increased major production capacity was: 
installed generating capacity, 300,000 kilowatts; petroleum 
exploitation 110,000 tons; lumber cut and shipped 350 million 
cubic meters; cement, 670,000 tons; 220,000 volt electrical 
lines, 204 kilometers; synthetic washing detergent, 50,000 tons; 
and 80,000 intra-city automatic telephone exchanges. 
  IV. Transportation and Post and Telegraph 
  Despite the fact that transportation enterprises are 
vigorously tapping the potential of transportation and equitably 
allocating transportation, the disparity with what is needed for 
the rapid growth of society's economy is still rather 
pronounced. The shortage of railroad transportation especially 
still has not greatly improved. 
  The situation accomplished by various types of 
transportation 
is as follows: 


                                        1993                Increase From 
                                                            Previous Year 
                                                            (percent) 

Freight                                 46.639 billion      -0.3 
Circulation Volume                      ton kilometers 


                     Railroad           39.777 billion      2.6 
                                        ton kilometers 

                     Highway            6.731 billion ton   10.5 
                                        kilometers 

                     Water Transport    131 million ton     -7.0 
                                        kilometers 

Passenger                               16.767 billion      -2.6 
Circulation Volume                      passenger 
                                        kilometers 

                     Railroad           12.36 billion       11.1 
                                        passenger 
                                        kilometers 

                     Highway            4.39 billion        -21.9 
                                        passenger 
                                        kilometers 

                     Water Transport    17 million          -6.0 
                                        passenger 
                                        kilometers 


  The development of civil air has accelerated. In 1993 five 
new air routes opened, two of them international. By the end of 
the year, thirty domestic and international air routes had 
opened. For the year, the volume of passenger transport was 
250,000 people, a 1.6 percent increase over the previous year. 
  Post and telegraph communications developed rapidly. The 
success achieved in constructing communications facilities was 
amazing. The total volume of post and telegraph business 
achieved for the year was 1.07 billion yuan, a 52.4 percent 
increase over the previous year. Within that, such business as 
express special delivery, beepers, and mobile telephones, 
increased by 86.0 percent, 280 percent, and 360 percent, 
respectively. For the year, 140 million letters were sent, a 
12.2 percent increase over the previous year, and 400 million 
periodicals were issued, a 17.4 percent increase. By the end of 
the year, throughout the province total capacity of city 
telephone exchanges reached 738,000, a 68.5 percent increase 
over the end of the previous year. Cities and counties 
throughout the province had all entered automatic long distance 
telephone networks. Intra-city programmed telephones from merely 
356,000 at the end of the previous year, have reached 656,000. 
The total of city telephone instruments throughout the province 
reached 501,000, a 51.8 percent increase over the previous year. 
  V. Domestic Commerce and Market Prices 
  In 1993 throughout the province, commercial enterprises 
constantly intensified reform, put forth an effort to convert 
operating mechanisms, developed market systems, and adopted 
flexible and diverse ways to promote sales, and amply supply 
consumer products. Market sales throughout the province were 
stable in the midst of prosperity. Annual social commodity 
retail sales were 35.75 billion yuan, a 19.9 percent increase 
over the previous year (with the price factor discounted, the 
actual increase was 7.7 percent). Within that, consumer product 
retail sales were 32.55 billion yuan, a 24.5 percent increase 
over the previous year, and retail sales of agricultural means 
of production were 3.2 billion yuan, a 12.8 percent decline. 
Among consumer product retail sales, urban retail sales were 
27.88 billion yuan, a 26.7 percent increase, and rural retail 
sales were 4.67 billion yuan, a 12.5 percent increase. Retail 
sales to citizens were 29.29 billion yuan, a 25.4 percent 
increase and those to social groups were 3.26 billion yuan, a 
16.8 percent increase. 
  Retail commodity sales from various types of economies all 
rose. State unit retail sales were 13.33 billion yuan, a 7.9 
percent increase over the previous year; collective unit retail 
sales were 7.2 billion yuan, a 0.2 percent increase; and other 
unit retail sales were 15.22 billion yuan, a 48.1 percent 
increase. Farmers' retail sales to nonagricultural residents 
were 3.83 billion yuan, a 27 percent increase. From the sales 
figures for various types of consumer items, it seems that 
edible and useful commodities increased greatly. Within that, 
the sales volume for edible vegetable oil, pigs and pork, fresh 
eggs, and aquatic products all increased by 19 percent or more. 
Among durable consumer items, video recorders increased by 10.6 
percent, refrigerators increased by 4.2 percent, and other 
commodities all declined to a different extent. 
  Development of the market system made rather great strides. 
In 1993 while consolidating and developing the commodity market, 
emphasis was put on developing and perfecting such essential 
markets as the financial, science and technology, talent, labor, 
real estate, and property rights exchange markets. The Changchun 
Commodity Exchange Market and the Jilin Grain Commodity Exchange 
were established and went into operation one after the other, 
and the establishment of the futures market also made new 
strides. Throughout the province, all types of markets grew to 
2,495 from 1,700 at the end of 1992. 
  The means of production market went from flourishing to 
slack. In the first half of the year, pulled by the investment 
demand, means of production were in short supply and the price 
rose. Since the last half of the year, with the implementation 
of macroeconomic control measures, the means of production 
market has stabilized. For the year, the provincial goods system 
purchase of means of production was 6.84 billion yuan, a 24.8 
percent increase over the previous year, and sales of all types 
of means of production was 7.37 billion yuan, a 19.6 percent 
increase. Sales volume for principal means of production 
declined somewhat from the previous year. Steel declined by 10.5 
percent, cement declined by 16.3 percent, and automobiles 
declined by 22.7 percent. 
  Price reform made greater strides and prices rose high. In 
1993 on the base adjusted a few years ago, the state and the 
province made rather great adjustments in the prices of daily 
necessities and service fees or freed them. Also pulled by the 
vigorous demands of society from the rapid development of the 
economy, prices all over the province rose completely. Prices of 
grain, building materials, civilian use fuel, and service fees 
especially rose rather greatly. Price rises throughout the 
province stood at the mid-lower level for the country, but for 
low-income citizens the pressure was rather great. 
  Various types of 1993 prices and their changes from the 
previous year are: 


                                                 1993          Amount of 
                                                 Increase      Increase or 
                                                 Over the      Decrease From 
                                                 Previous      Previous Year 
                                                 Year          (percentage 
                                                 (percent)     points) 

1. Citizens'                                     12.6          4.6 
Living Expense 
Prices 

Within that:     Urban                           13.2          4.9 

                 Rural                           8.8           4.9 

2. Retail                                        11.3          4.2 
Prices 

Within that:     Consumer Items                  11.4          4.2 

                 Food Items                      13.5          5.3 

                                   Grain         22.4          -6.5 

                                   Edible        14.2          -3.1 
                                   Vegetable 
                                   Oil 

                 Clothing                        3.8           1.4 

                 Daily Use                       5.3           2.3 
                 Articles 

                 Cultural and                    1.0           3.5 
                 Entertainment 
                 Items 

                 Books,                          5.8           1.0 
                 Newspapers, and 
                 Magazines 

                 Medicines and                   8.2           1.9 
                 Medical Items 

                 Building and                    27.3          32.3 
                 Decorating 
                 Materials 

                 Fuel                            59.7          22.3 

                 Agricultural                    9.3           4.8 
                 Means of 
                 Production 

3. Service                                       24.5          12.3 
Prices 

Within that:     Urban                           25.9          13.3 

                 Rural                           16.3          4.6 

4. Raw                                           73.9          46.8 
Material and 
Fuel and Power 
Purchasing 
Prices 

5. Industrial                                    27.9          16.5 
Product 
Producer 
Prices 

6.                                               18.4          18.8 
Agricultural 
and 
Agricultural 
Byproduct 
Purchasing 
Prices 


  VI. External Economy 
  In 1993 the opening to the outside of the whole province 
developed to a higher level, broadened in scope, and expanded in 
every direction. The strategy of opening borders and linking up 
overseas was well implemented, the investment environment 
improved, the number of cooperative partners greatly increased, 
and brand new situations were initiated in the external economy. 
  Imports and exports grew rapidly. According to statistics of 
the Ministry of Economic Relations and Trade, in 1993 provincial 
foreign trade import and export totals reached US$2.617 billion, 
a 36.1 percent increase over the previous year. Within that, 
export totals were US$1.617 billion, a 23.7 percent increase, 
and imports were US$1 billion, a 62.3 percent increase over the 
previous year. According to customs statistics, foreign firms 
invested US$300 million in import facilities, goods, and 
materials, a 150 percent increase over the previous year. Barter 
trade totalled US$690 million. Within that, barter exports were 
US$300 million. 
  Solicitation of foreign investment was remarkably 
successful. 
In 1993 throughout the province, 1,434 new cooperative projects 
were signed using foreign funds and US$770 million in foreign 
funds was cooperatively utilized, for a 136.2 percent and a 40.0 
percent increase over the previous year, respectively. Actual 
use of foreign investment was US$650 million, an increase of 
nearly 200 percent over the previous year. According to 
statistics of the Bureau To Solicit Foreign Firms, by the end of 
the year, throughout the province the number of enterprises with 
foreign investment had reached 2,235. 
  Rather great progress was achieved in foreign economic and 
technical cooperation. In 1993 throughout the province, new 
contracts were signed for foreign contracted projects and labor 
cooperation amounting to US$160 million, a 14.3 percent increase 
over the previous year, and they did business amounting to US$70 
million, even with the previous year. 
  The tourist industry developed further. In 1993 overseas 
tourists coming to Jilin Province for travel, visits, to seek 
relatives, and to engage in various activities came to 79,000, a 
5.7 percent decline from the previous year. Tourist foreign 
exchange revenue reached US$11.1 million, a 0.7 percent increase. 
  VII. Science and Technology, Education, Culture, and 
Health and Sports 
  Science and technology developed rather rapidly. With 
gradual 
intensification of reform of the science and technology system, 
throughout the province news of victories on the science and 
technology front kept pouring in. In 1993 throughout the 
province, a total of 722 scientific and technical achievements 
were accomplished, six of which received national awards. Of 
these one received the National Science and Technology Progress 
Award, one received the National Invention Award, and four 
received the National Spark Award. There were 168 achievements 
that received provincial awards. During the year, 1,718 patents 
were requested from the National Patent Office and 1,346 patents 
were authorized, for an 11.6 percent and a 76.9 percent increase 
over the previous year, respectively. By the end of the year, in 
the entire province there were two new national high technology 
industry development zones and 75 newly added Spark Plan 
projects. 
  Science and technology expenditures increased. In 1993 
throughout the province, 1.05 billion yuan was expended by 
science and technology organizations and such units as 
institutions of higher learning and large- and medium-sized 
industrial enterprises for use in science and technology, an 8.2 
percent increase over the previous year. Within that research 
and development expenditures were 330 million yuan. Science and 
technology ranks were expanded and personnel quality improved. 
At the end of 1993, throughout the province local state 
enterprises and institutions had a total of 707,000 people with 
various types of technical specialties, an increase of 24,000 
people or 3.5 percent from the end of the previous year. 
Throughout the province, there were 175 independent state 
research and development organizations at the county level and 
above, 200 scientific research organizations run by institutions 
of higher learning, and 360 scientific research organizations 
run by large and medium-sized industrial enterprises. There were 
54,000 people engaged in scientific and technical activities, of 
whom 30,000 were scientists and engineers. 
  By the end of 1993, authorization was received from the 
Jilin 
Provincial Technology Oversight Office to establish 33 
provincial level product quality test and measurement 
organizations. Of those, five were national level quality test 
and measurement organizations. Throughout the province, a total 
of fifteen ultrashort wave weather warning report service system 
transmitting stations were established. 
  The technology market further prospered. In 1993 throughout 
the province, a total of 8,175 technical contracts were signed 
for 670 million yuan, a 4.6 percent and a 55.8 percent increase 
over the previous year, respectively. There were 2,533 
technology trading organizations of various types active on the 
technology market, a 34.1 percent increase over the previous 
year, and 39,000 people were engaged in technology trading 
activities, a 14.7 percent increase. 
  Reform of the education system accelerated the development 
of 
general higher education, training a large number of specialists 
for provincial economic development and social undertakings. In 
1993 a total of 1,956 graduate students were recruited, an 
increase of 547 over the previous year. There were 4,848 
graduate students in school, an increase of 762 over the 
previous year. General institutions of higher learning recruited 
31,000 regular and specialized students, an increase of 6,000; 
and there were 86,000 students in school, an increase of 11,000. 
  Secondary level vocational education grew steadily. In 1993 
throughout the province, there were a total of 196,000 students 
in secondary level professional schools and upper middle 
vocational schools, an increase of 8,000 people over the 
previous year, making up 53.9 percent of the total students at 
the upper middle stage, an increase of two percentage points 
over the previous year. 
  The universality of mandatory education improved somewhat. 
In 
1993 in general middle schools and lower middle schools 
throughout the province, there were 1.128 million students in 
school, an increase of 3,000 over the previous year. There were 
2.573 million elementary school pupils in school, 26,000 fewer 
than the previous year. The rate of elementary school age 
children enrolled in school reached 99.3 percent, and the 
proportion of elementary school graduates who moved to next 
level of education reached 91.1 percent, an increase of 0.8 
percentage points and a decline of 0.2 percentage points, 
respectively, from the previous year. Throughout the province, 
there were 1,971 kindergartens and 489,000 kindergarten children. 
  Adult education achieved new success. In 1993 throughout the 
province, schools of higher education recruited 27,000 general 
and professional adult students, an increase of 8,000 over the 
previous year, and there were 62,000 in school, an increase of 
10,000 people. A total of 1.599 million people completed 
training in adult technical training schools, an increase of 
124,000 over the previous year. Literacy efforts achieved 
outstanding results. In 1992-1993 throughout the province, 
262,000 people from 15 to 50 years of age became literate. 
  Culture and the arts flourished. At the end of 1993 
throughout the province, there were a total of 68 performing art 
troupes, who had made 107,000 performances for audiences 
totalling 9.018 million people. Throughout the province, there 
were a total of 64 theaters, 1,024 culture and arts halls 
(stations), 50 public libraries, 16 museums, and 89 archives. 
There were 26 broadcasting stations, 33 medium and shortwave 
transmitting and relay stations, and 40 televisions stations. 
There were 74 television transmitting and relay stations of 
1,000 watts or higher. Throughout the province, broadcast 
coverage reached 85 percent and television coverage reached 82 
percent. There were 3,521 motion picture projection units of 
various types and during the year they made 162,000 projections 
for audiences reaching 30.059 million people. During the year, 
altogether 50 local newspapers published a total of 480 million 
issues, and 55.98 million journals of various sorts, and 110 
million picture books were published. 
  The Changchun Studio during the year produced 23 feature 
films, six jointly shot films, 2 art films, and 9 dubbed films. 
Film distributing units during the year distributed 173 new 
films (long films) of various types. Throughout the province, a 
total of 21 television dramas in 202 episodes were shot and 22 
radio dramas in 85 episodes were made. 
  Hygiene continued to develop and medical conditions further 
improved. In 1993 throughout the province, there were a total 
4,006 health organizations of various types and 129,000 people 
possessing special health technology, an increase of 1,000 from 
the end of the previous year. Among those were 53,000 physicians 
and 38,000 nurses and nurse practitioners. Medical treatment 
beds reached 97,000, a 1.6 percent increase from the end of the 
previous year. 
  Athletics achieved outstanding success. In 1993 athletes 
from 
Jilin Province rallied together and with the spirit of winning 
honor for the country won four gold medals and three bronze 
medals in major world competition; and won eight gold medals, 
eight silver medals, and three bronze medals in major Asian 
competition. In national competition, they won 27 gold medals, 
20.5 silver medals, and 24 bronze medals. Within that, athletes 
from Jilin Province won nine gold medals, nine silver medals, 
and twelve bronze medals at the Seventh National Games. They 
were the 15th team overall, achieving the goal of "leaping in 
position" proposed by the provincial government. Athletes from 
Jilin Province achieved the best record in recent years at the 
national games. During the year, altogether five athletes from 
Jilin Province nine times broke seven world records and twelve 
people sixteen times broke sixteen national records. 
  Athletics for the masses flourished. In 1993 throughout the 
province, the number of people who regularly participated in 
physical exercise reached 12.45 million, and the number who 
participated in organized morning exercises reached more than 
850,000. Students who achieved National Physical Exercise 
Standards exceeded 2.52 million. In 1993 in national mass 
athletics assessment, the overall achievement of Jilin 
Province's mass athletics was in the top ten. 
  VIII. Population and People's Livelihood 
  Family planning was successful and population growth was 
controlled. According to a sample survey of population changes, 
in 1993 the provincial population birth rate was 15.28 per 
thousand, the death rate was 6.31 per thousand, and the natural 
population growth rate was 8.97 per thousand, a decline of 0.20 
thousandths from the previous year. According to calculations, 
the total population of the province at the end of 1993 was 
25.545 million, a 228,000 increase from the end of the previous 
year. 
  The incomes of urban and rural residents further increased. 
According to preliminary statistics, in 1993 worker wages 
throughout the province totalled 14.17 billion yuan, a 16.1 
percent increase from the previous year. If the price factor is 
deducted, it is a 2.6 percent increase. Workers' average 
monetary wage was 2,623 yuan, a 13.6 percent increase from the 
previous year. If the price factor is deducted, it is a 0.4 
percent increase. According to the calculations of the sample 
survey, in 1993 throughout the province the per capita living 
expense income of urban residents was 1,761.05, a 19.7 percent 
increase over the previous year. If the price factor is 
deducted, the actual increase is 5.8 percent. The net per capita 
income of farmers was 891.61 yuan, a 10.4 percent increase over 
the previous year. If the price factor is deducted, the actual 
increase is 3.0 percent. 
  Urban and rural savings continued to increase. At the end of 
1993, throughout the province, urban and rural residents' 
savings balances reached 38.94 billion yuan, an increase of 7.4 
billion yuan or 23.5 percent from the end of the previous year. 
Citizens' awareness of financial investment increased and such 
things as stocks and bonds became in great demand for people's 
investment. 
  Residential conditions of urban and rural residents further 
improved. In 1993 throughout the province, there were 2.4 
million square meters of newly-constructed urban residences and 
3.75 million square meters of newly-constructed rural 
residences. The per capita residential space of urban residents 
reached 6.2 square meters and that of rural residents reached 
16.0 square meters, for an increase from the previous year of 
0.2 square meters and 1.8 square meters, respectively. 
  The labor employment service system gradually improved. In 
1993 throughout the province, there were 551 township, town, and 
neighborhood employment service stations. Labor departments at 
the county level and above established 48 new labor force 
exchange markets. During the year they served more than 10,000 
employing units and 380,000 personnel seeking employment and 
facilitated the employment of 304,000 people. During the year, 
they made arrangements for a total of 117,000 urban people 
awaiting employment, and the year-end unemployment rate was held 
within 2.5 percent. At the end of the year, the number of people 
employed throughout the province reached 5.403 million, and the 
number of people in urban private business and individual 
laborers reached 400,000. Old age insurance and social plans 
continued to expand. Throughout the province, state units had 
2.21 million workers and 495,000 retired personnel participating 
in the plan. 
  Social welfare steadily improved. Throughout the province, 
there were 930 social welfare institutions of various types, 
with beds reaching 42,000 and 32,000 people taken in. Urban and 
rural people receiving various types of state social assistance 
reached 1.2 million, and throughout the province 87 percent of 
township towns established rural social assurance networks. 
Urban social service networks also grew rather rapidly, 8,464 
social region service facilities of various types were 
established. 
  The scope of insurance expanded and areas of service opened 
up. In 1993 throughout the province, property insurance of 
various types totalled 112.9 billion yuan. A total of 21,968 
enterprises took part in enterprise property insurance, there 
were 2.18 million households that participated in family 
property insurance, and 4.34 million people who took part in 
individual insurance. During the year, insurance companies dealt 
with a total of 64,000 property insurance claims and paid out 
350 million yuan, and paid out 110 million yuan in personal 
insurance claims to 92,000 people. 
  Environmental protection achieved new success and the 
environment that people lived in improved. At the end of 1993, 
throughout the province there were a total of 2,930 people 
employed by the environmental protection system. Of those 1,073 
were monitors. A total of three national level nature protection 
zones and ten provincial level nature protection zones were 
developed. During the year, eight local administrative 
regulations and one local environmental standard were 
promulgated. There were 187 limited time environmental pollution 
clean-up projects completed with a total of 49.377 million yuan 
invested. At the end of the year, throughout the province 209 
soot control zones covering an area of 348.6 square kilometers 
were established in 23 cities, and in 20 cities 60 zones 
covering 86.4 square kilometers were established that had 
achieved environmental noise standards. 
  Notes: (1) In this report, indices for the GDP, township 
enterprise total value of output, and the total value of output 
of industries are calculated according to current prices and the 
rate of growth is calculated according to comparative prices. 
  (2) In this report, the data of some indices are quickly 
reported or estimated figures. 

