Language: <F P=105> Bulgarian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Telephone report by Kalina Stancheva on the Council of </F>
Ministers meeting in Sofia on 31 March -- live] 
  [Text] Regarding the first item on the agenda of the 
cabinet meeting today, the number one topic this week, Finance 
Minister Stoyan Aleksandrov said: We expect that in early April 
a countershock will occur when the producers and merchants 
restock with raw materials and goods. He admitted the 
possibility of delays in supplies, which will restrict demand 
for foreign currency because of the fact that firms will be 
starting to pay their taxes and salaries, so that people will 
start selling foreign currency. 
  According to Stoyan Aleksandrov, the measures adopted by the 
Bulgarian National Bank [BNB] to limit liquidity will have an 
effect, as will the start of the checks on the 3,000 foreign 
currency exchange bureaus, 260 brokerage houses, and about 50 
banks. [passage omitted] 
  Next week the finance minister will ask parliament to amend 
the Law on Speculation, to reduce the speculative raising of 
prices for basic goods. Incidentally, today he also said he 
wanted to extend the list of basic goods monitored by the 
government, but the government decided first to seek the 
agreement of its partners in the National Council for Trilateral 
Cooperation. 
  The government also made changes in the membership of the 
Interagency Council on Problems of the Military-Industrial 
Complex, appointing different deputy ministers of industry and 
trade, namely Racho Petrov and Dencho Georgiev, to replace 
Yordan Bochev and Stanimir Barzashki respectively. 

