BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 1 Apr (PL) -- Commercial relations between 
China and Cuba were boosted today with the signing of agreements 
aimed at strengthening the shipment of food and medicine from 
Beijing to the island in exchange for sugar. 
  The agreement was signed at the conclusion of the Sixth 
Session of the Mixed Intergovernmental Commission which was 
presided over by Cuban Foreign Trade Minister Ricardo Cabrisas. 
Hao Jianxiu of the Chinese Planning Commission served as vice 
chairman of the meeting. Hao arrived in Havana on Sunday. 
  The high-ranking officer described the agreement as positive 
and told the press that he is aware of the difficult economic 
situation Cuba is confronting, which translates into serious 
cutbacks in supplies and services for the people. 
  Without going into detail on the protocol that has just been 
signed and which encompasses commercial trade goals for 1994, 
Cabrisas said the most important thing is that these agreements 
ensure the future development of cooperation between the two 
countries. 
  During the meeting, four documents for bilateral cooperation 
were signed including the final document of the meeting. 
  The Chinese delegation was received by Carlos Lage, vice 
president of the Cuban Council of State and the person 
responsible for supervising Cuba's economic activities, as well 
as other high-ranking officials from the light, steel, food, and 
sugar industries. 
  Cuba holds second place in Latin America in terms of trade 
with China. These trade activities exceeded $400 million in 
1993. 
  The Chinese have sold rice, bicycles, and even machinery 
spare parts to Cuba in exchange for Cuban nickel, biotechnology 
products, citrus products, and sugar. 

