BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Charles Pasqua: `The Crime Spiral </F>
Has Been Broken'"] 
  [Text] "France has stopped the increase in the crime rate, 
which has been rising almost continually over previous years," 
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua told members of the National 
Assembly yesterday as part of the government address on 
security. The following are the main points of his speech. 
<H5>  Statistics </H5>
  According to Mr. Pasqua, from April 1993 to March 1994, the 
overall increase in crimes and misdemeanors in metropolitan 
France "was a mere 0.47 percent." Mentioning as an example car 
thefts and crimes on public highways, he explained that the 
former "fell by 3.1 percent" while the latter "increased by a 
modest 1.1 percent." Furthermore, and "this is the first time in 
20 years that violent thefts decreased by .12 percent," he 
indicated. Mr. Pasqua said these figures were "encouraging if 
one looks at the general 34-percent increase in crime in the 
years 1989-1992, a figure that reaches 54 percent for crime on 
public highways and even 67 percent for armed robberies." In 
his view, this means that "the spiral is conclusively broken." 
<H5>  Drugs </H5>
  Drug trafficking "decreased by 4 percent" over the last 12 
months. To demonstrate "intensive police activity," Charles 
Pasqua indicated that 6,070 dealers, 55 percent of whom were 
foreigners, and 6,289 users-dealers had been arrested and 
subjected to legal proceedings. Last, "for the first time in 
France in 10 years, there was a decline in deaths by overdose: 
454 compared with 499." 

