Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Veronika Romanenkova] </F>
  [Text] Moscow December 27 TASS -- The dumping of 
radioactive wastes into the Sea of Japan could be avoided if 
Russia "got very urgent aid from its partners," in particular 
from Japan, Russian Minister for the Protection of the 
Environment and Natural Resources Viktor Danilov-Danilyan told 
ITAR-TASS today. 
  The minister mentioned, as part of this aid, a mobile 
installation for processing liquid radioactive wastes. Huge 
quantities of liquid wastes have accumulated on tankers and an 
accident may occur on one of them at any time. Russia has no 
capacities in the Far East to process liquid wastes. "A 
submarine cannot be dumped into a garbage bin like a child's 
toy," Danilov- Danilyan said. Liquid wastes will continue to 
accumulate for another five years even if Russia decided to 
liquidate its Navy. 
  "At the present time, Russian experts have drawn up a plan 
and timetable for building liquid radioactive wastes processing 
installations. It will be discussed by the government shortly," 
the minister stated. The fulfilment of this programme requires 
not only much money -- 10 billion roubles, but also time (about 
two years). Therefore, "Japan will either have to agree to a 
regular disposal of wastes or provide Russia with an 
installation to process them," Danilov-Danilyan stressed. 

