Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] There are problems right now at the Supreme 
Electoral Tribunal [TSE]. Magistrate Eduardo Colindres has 
confirmed that members of the Farabundo Marti National 
Liberation Front [FMLN] and residents from several 
municipalities in the northern part of the country, especially 
from Chalatenango, are not letting people preparing for the 20 
March elections to enter or leave the building. Dr. Colindres, 
who refused to comment on his current status, only said they are 
preventing TSE personnel from leaving the building. 
  [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] Dr. Colindres, we 
received a telephone call at the radio station informing us of 
problems at the TSE facility. Apparently the people from the 
northern part of the country have taken hostage the people who 
work at the facility. Please, can you confirm the real situation 
at the tribunal? 
  [Colindres] What happened is that FMLN leaders Mr. 
[Francisco] Jovel and Mr. Gerson Martinez arrived with a group 
of people. I do not know where they came from or how many there 
are because I have been unable to leave. Some were armed when 
they entered the building. They said they would not allow anyone 
from the tribunal to come or go. This apparently relates to four 
municipalities in Chalatenango, namely Arcatao, San Jose Las 
Flores, San Isidro Labrador, and Nueva Trinidad, where the 
Supreme Electoral Tribunal has decided the elections will be 
held at the departmental capital, which means in Chalatenango. 
The decision was made because members of the four municipal 
electoral boards and the Chalatenango Electoral Board requested 
it. I am going to read the text of their request. Because there 
are few residents in San Isidro Labrador Municipality and the 
municipality lacks means of communications, we request 
permission to relocate our voting center to the capital of the 
department so the elections can be held successfully. Based on 
this request and bearing in mind that most of the population 
lives in the capital of the department, the tribunal decided to 
hold the elections in Chalatenango. I understand these people do 
not want anyone here to come or go until they are received. 
  [Reporter] What is your current status inside the tribunal? 
  [Colindres] I would rather not say. The only thing that is 
clear is that they are not allowing anyone to come or go. 
  [Reporter] In addition to the personnel and the magistrates 
who are inside the building, are there other people there who 
may have been filing voting card application forms? 
  [Colindres] Yes, I understand there are people here who do 
not work for the tribunal and who are not being allowed to leave. 
  [Reporter] Have you been able to confirm if the armed people 
are not allowing the people to come or go? 
  [Colindres] Several armed people did in fact enter the 
building, but these people, along with Mr. Jovel and Mr. Gerson 
Martinez, have already left the building. I understand these 
people are still outside. 
  [Reporter] Do you have any idea how many people are outside 
the building? 
  [Colindres] I have not gone outside. I did not want to go 
outside to avoid any unfortunate incident. 
  [Reporter] What is being done at this time to resolve this 
problem? Are any Onusal [UN Observer Mission for El Salvador] 
people there already? 
  [Colindres] There are Onusal people here, and we believe the 
Onusal must intervene to defend the human rights of the 
employees and all the people who are inside the building. [end 
recording] 

