Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A. F. Zausayev, A. N. Pushkarev, Institute of </F>
Astrophysics, Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tajikistan; 
UDC 521.1] 
  [Abstract] In studying the danger of asteroid collisions 
with Earth, one must identify the objects whose orbits will 
intersect with that of Earth. At present, those objects comprise 
asteroids of the Apollo, Amor, and Aten groups; asteroids of the 
X group; short-period comets; and large fragments of meteor 
trails. This paper examines only asteroids of the Apollo, Amor, 
and Aten groups, primarily because we have precise data 
describing their orbits. It focuses on 114 asteroids. The 
researchers perform numerical integration of the equations of 
motion of those objects via a method advanced by Everhart. 
Orbital elements were calculated, as were minimum distances 
under 0.05 au between the asteroids and Earth. A total of 89 of 
the asteroids were found to be candidates for a collision. The 
line of apsides of the asteroids has a rotational-translational 
motion, completing a full revolution over a period of tens of 
thousands to hundreds of thousands of years. Over a period of a 
full revolution, the asteroid orbit can intersect with that of 
Earth at four points. The researchers computed the mathematical 
probability _t_ of such an event as a function of asteroid 
velocity and orbital inclination and then calculated the time 
period in which the asteroid could collide with Earth. Although 
it could take 6-10 million years before an asteroid could 
collide, the overall danger of collision is considerably greater 
than is the danger associated with one asteroid, mainly because 
there may be many asteroid still undiscovered. References 8: 6 
Russian, 2 Western. 

