Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Burma's military rulers are pressganging hundreds of 
Shan farmers from the Kengtung area into acting as porters in 
their current offensive against drugs warlord Khun Sa, according 
to some who recently escaped to the Thai border. 
  About 30 of the porters spoken to on Thursday at a small 
village on the border in northern Chiang Mai province said they 
were forcibly taken from their villages by the Burmese soldiers 
in early December. 
  They were taken by truck to Tachilek and told they would be 
carrying supplies for the Burmese army near the Karenni area. 
  The men, who arrived at the village in an emaciated and 
haggard condition, said they were forced to carry between 40 and 
80 kilos of weapons and food. 
  If they refused, they said, they were beaten. 
  "We were fed only a cup of rice per day and were treated 
worse than animals. It was more than a human being could take," 
said one man. 
  The refugees said they only realized they were being used in 
the offensive against Khun Sa when they arrived in the Doi Pang 
Thong area. 
  It is one day's walk from the current battle between Rangoon 
troops and the drugs kingpin's forces at Mong Jawd opposite 
Pieng Luang. 
  During the night, they fled to avoid getting involved in the 
fighting. 
  The men said they tried to find their way home, but instead 
ended up on the Thai border while trying to skirt around Burmese 
troops. 
  Several were injured by a landmine explosion while cutting 
though the jungle. 

