CSO 

  [Text] The success of the launch of the H-2 marked a page 
in the history of space development in this country and can be 
called the first step toward the moon and Mars observation 
missions or toward the launch of the Japanese version of the 
space shuttle. It has been 39 years since the University of 
Tokyo succeeded in launching the "Pencil Rocket" as this 
country's first attempt at rocketry. Until now, Japan had been 
largely depending on technology licensed from the United States. 
Now Japan is capable of participating in the international space 
development race with its own technology, which is on a par with 
that of the United States, Europe, Russia and China. 
  The H-2 launch-vehicle project got under way in 1984 when 
its 
development project was authorized by the Space Activities 
Commission of the Prime Minister's Office. The development 
itself actually started in 1986, and the first launch was slated 
for 1991 in the beginning. The object of the project was to 
develop a rocket that would be comparable to the U.S. Titan 
rocket and the European Ariane rocket based on Japan's own 
technology. 
  At that time, Japan had just succeeded in launching the N-2 
launch vehicle and was developing the H-1 launch vehicle. No 
consensus had been reached yet as to the specification of the 
vehicle that was to be the successor of the H-1, and 800 kg, 1 
ton and 1.5 tons were discussed as the possible payloads. NTT 
proposed an idea for increasing the weight of a satellite to be 
launched to geostationary orbit to 2 metric tons from 550 kg 
(H-1). They told the National Aerospace Development Agency of 
Japan (NASDA) that future satellites had to be much larger, as 
they saw increasing needs for larger communication satellites, 
and that was indeed the start of the H-2 project. The H-2 launch 
vehicle thus developed is 49 meters in total length and weighs 
260 metric tons before launch. The main propulsion system 
consists of two stage rockets, both using liquid hydrogen and 
liquid oxygen as propellants. 
  The two stage combustion principle used in the H-2's first 
stage engine is similar to that of the U.S. Space Shuttle and 
the Russian Energiya. That was the key to the overall success of 
the project. The first stage engine, dubbed the LE-7, is a 
highly efficient engine capable of converting every gram of 
propellant carried in the tank into a thrust force. Of course, 
it is not the first Japanese engine to use liquid hydrogen and 
liquid oxygen as the propellants. The LE-5 engine, which was 
used as the second stage engine of the H-1 was based on the same 
principle. With the LE-5, a portion of the liquid propellants 
was vaporized to use its expansion energy to drive the 
turbopump, and the propellant used for driving the turbopump was 
discarded after that, resulting in poor engine efficiency. 
  In the two stage combustion system, which was the key 
development item of the entire project, the gas produced in the 
first stage combustion is used for driving the turbopump. Then 
the propellant remaining after the first stage combustion and 
the propellent pumped directly from the tank into the combustion 
room are mixed and caused to react. As the propellant is burned 
in two stages, it is called the two stage combustion system. 
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries developed that turbopump, 
whereas Mitsubishi Heavy Industries developed the main body of 
the engine. 
  The engine generates 86 metric tons (110 tons in the vacuum) 
of thrust at sea level, which exceeds the average sea level 
thrust of 77 tons generated by the MB-3 engine used on N-type or 
H-1 rockets. 
  The engine was the most difficult part of the entire 
project; 
an explosion during the development of the turbine resulted in a 
loss of human life, and yet another explosion during a 
combustion test caused the disintegration of the engine, thus 
forcing the launch schedule to be put off for two years. 
  The development of a launch vehicle is often said to be 
built 
on the number of engines destroyed during the development; the 
fact that they had only two years of delay from the original 
schedule is commendable. 
  The first stage rocket engine is attached to a pair of 
solid-propellant rockets, each of which is packed with a solid 
polybutadiene propellant and measures 1.8 meters in diameter and 
23 meters in length; they provide an additional total thrust of 
about 300 metric tons (159 tons each). This auxiliary rocket was 
developed by Nissan Motor, which is considered quite dependable 
because its long history of rocket development dates back to the 
good old days of the Pencil Rocket. That same rocket will be 
used as the main engine of the next-generation J-1 small launch 
vehicle. 
  J-1 is a small, economical launch vehicle that is scheduled 
to lift the prototype of HOPE, the Japanese version of the space 
shuttle. 
  The second-stage engine of the H-2 is the LE-5A, a modified 
model of the LE-5, which has proved itself as H-1's second-stage 
engine. The engine was modified from the gas-generator system to 
the hydrogen breed-cycle system; it produces 12 metric tons of 
thrust in a vacuum. The fairing, for enclosing a payload such as 
a satellite, was also developed with domestic technology this 
time, although it had been imported from the United States. A 
huge fairing having a total length of 4 meters was developed by 
Kawasaki Heavy Industries, which joined in the rocket 
manufacturing business for the first time. 
  With the success of the H-2 launch vehicle, Japan is 
entering 
its large-rocket era. The H-2 can place a 2-metric-ton satellite 
into geostationary orbit (altitude: 36,000 km), a cargo weighing 
about 10 metric tons into low earth orbit (such as a cargo to a 
space station), a satellite weighing about 5 metric tons into a 
sun-synchronous orbit (altitude: about 700 km), or a satellite 
weighing about 6 metric tons into an orbit with an altitude of 
1,000 km. It will also be able to haul a surveyor weighing 2 
metric tons to the moon or Mars, fulfilling many space 
development dreams. 
<H5>  Improved Functions Provide Competitiveness Against U.S. and </H5>
European Vehicles 
  Moreover, the vehicle's capability can be easily enhanced by 
adding more booster rockets. It will be able to place a 
satellite weighing as much as 4-5 metric tons into geostationary 
orbit. Various versions are also possible. Its capacity is 
comparable to the launch capability of the Ariane IV, which was 
developed by the European Space Agency (ESA) in 1988 and is 
currently operated by Arianespace (2.3 metric tons to 
geostationary orbit), or the capability of the U.S. Titan 3 (2.2 
metric tons to geostationary orbit); the upgraded version of the 
H-2 will have a capability equivalent to the Ariane V (4.5 
metric tons to geostationary orbit), to be tested by ESA in 
1995, or the Titan 4 (same capacity), which is already in 
service. 
  Of course, everything is not rosy in the Japanese space era 
being ushered in by the H-2. The manufacture of each H-2 costs 
about &yen;16 billion; when added to the launch cost, which is 
estimated to be about &yen;3 billion, the total cost becomes 
&yen;19 billion. 
  That is high by comparison with overseas competitors. The 
yen, which was valued at &yen;240 to the U.S. dollar when the 
project started, is now &yen;120 to the U.S. dollar. There is no 
way to compete with the vehicles of other countries that are 
launched at a cost of about &yen;10 billion. Also NASDA's hands 
are tied by the fact that it has only one launch site, and 
launch windows are available only twice a year. 
  However, the cost reduction effort has already begun, and 
there are predictions that a 20-30 percent cost reduction is 
possible through mass production. Also, the operational issues 
that had been postponed until the success of the launch are now 
beginning to be reviewed, so that it is certain that our 
international competitiveness will be re-evaluated soon. 

