BFN 

<F P=106> [Wouter Dambre video report] </F>
  [Text] NIRAS, the national office for radioactive waste and 
enriched nuclear fuels, will soon be responsible for two new 
plants, costing 4.5 billion Belgian francs, half of which is to 
be paid by electricity producers. The plants include a central 
processing unit for low-radioactive waste and a storage place 
for medium- and high-radioactive waste. 
  [Begin recording] [Dambre] Here is CILVA, the central 
infrastructure for low-radioactive solid waste. It is a highly 
modern plant where low-radioactive waste is processed. The 
waste comes mainly from nuclear plants, hospitals, and 
laboratories. Belgo-Process, the industrial subsidiary of 
NIRAS, will simultaneously take delivery of the processing unit 
at the end of May. 
  [NIRAS General Director Decamps] This is a unique project in 
Belgium, and also in Europe. It is the most up-to-date plant of 
this type for the processing of low-radioactive waste. The 
waste is processed in such a way so as to confine the 
radioactivity in a safe container. 
  [Dambre] Containers with low-radioactive waste are 
compressed 
by a hydraulic press to reduce the volume of the waste. What is 
left goes into large casks in which concrete is cast. The 
radiation thus stays inside. Each year 250 tons of 
low-radioactive waste also can be burnt here. The ashes are 
then refined, compressed, and end up in containers in which a 
layer of concrete is cast. 
  NIRAS also has built a new storage place for 
high-radioactive 
waste. Starting in 1995, the nuclear waste from spent fuel from 
Belgian nuclear plants will end up here. 
  [Decamps] The waste will have to be stored here at least 40 
to 50 years until it possibly can be stored, for example, in 
clay layers deep in the sea. [end recording] 

