Language: <F P=105> Lao </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "The Four Countries Making Up the </F>
Golden Triangle Sign Drug Suppression Memorandum"] 
  [Text] According to a report from the UN office for drug 
control in Laos, on 26 October at the UN headquarters in New 
York the United Nations, in order to control international 
drugs, met with the LPDR, the PRC, Myanmar [Burma] and Thailand 
to sign a memorandum to tighten up cooperation in suppressing 
drugs in the Golden Triangle. 
  Mr Alounkeo Sittikoun, the LPDR representative, together 
with 
the representatives of the PRC, Myanmar [Burma], the Kingdom of 
Thailand and the director of the UN project to control 
international drugs met to sign this memorandum. The goal was to 
increase cooperation in controlling the drugs in this area of 
these countries and to assure the continuation of high-level 
consultations between these four governments and the United 
Nations in order to control international drugs with respect to 
the production of illegal drugs in this area, trafficking and 
violations. The memorandum also stated that the area of the 
Golden Triangle in Southeast Asia was an area of extensive drug 
production. For this reason the four countries, Laos, China, 
Myanmar and Thailand, reached an agreement with the UN office 
for the control of international drugs to increase cooperation 
in correcting the problem of widespread drug production, 
trafficking and use. The UN office for drug control is to 
provide technical assistance and funds to the governments of 
these four countries. 

