BFN 

  [Text] On Saturday in Vladivostok, a Russian-Japanese 
inter-governmental commission concluded the Russian stage of the 
discussions devoted to the search for ways to solve the problem 
of storage and reprocessing of liquid radioactive wastes which 
is very pressing for the Maritime territory today. The work is 
to be continued in Tokyo. On April 24 the joint delegation is 
to go to Japan. 
  In the course of the conference a concept of a complex 
approach to the selection of different means was presented to 
the Japanese party which proposes to the Maritime territory its 
financial and technological assistance to solve the problem of 
storage and utilization of liquid radioactive wastes. 
  It was proposed to urgently start construction of a complex 
of surface stationary storage facilities for liquid radioactive 
wastes with the capacity 2000 cubic meters on the coast of the 
cape of Sysoyev which would have all necessary systems and 
mechanisms to prevent leakage of liquid radioactive wastes from 
the tankers TNT. 
  The second stage, namely designing and construction of an 
autonomous mobile floating complex to reprocess liquid 
radioactive wastes available and being generated in the Maritime 
territory (which can be dumped into the open sea), is to be 
implemented simultaneously. 
  As head of the Russian delegation Nikolay Yegorov, Russia's 
deputy Atomic Energy Minister and co-chairman of the 
Russian-Japanese committee on nuclear disarmament, underlined, 
the developed approach to the problem of liquid radioactive 
wastes in the Maritime territory expresses a single opinion of 
the Russian party and is proposed as the most acceptable variant 
in case the Japanese party finances the planned works. 

