Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Xu Jingyue [1776 0079 6460]: ``Nation's Robotics </F>
Research Ascends to Advanced International Level: 
Fifth-Generation Industrial Robots Now on Market''] 
  [Summary] Beijing, 8 Jan (XINHUA)--Nine varieties of 
domestic fifth-generation industrial robots are now on the 
market. These robots--used for arc welding, spot welding, spray 
painting, assembly, transport, teaching, research, and handling 
of toxic substances and explosives--meet advanced international 
standards for variety, performance, quality, and reliability. 
  The arc-welding and spot-welding robots, developed by the 
China Aerospace Corporation's (CASC) Institute 17 along with 
other units, have ``teaching and playback'' intelligent 
functions. The spray-painting robot, developed by CASC's 
Institute 706 along with other units, can grasp 10-kg objects 
and has a repeat positioning accuracy of 2mm. An 
electronic-component mounting robot with visual recognition 
functions has a repeat positioning accuracy of 0.03mm. These 
robots are now in batch production, and have found applications 
in the arc-welding and spray-painting assembly lines for the 
``Audi'' bus, made at the No. 1 Automotive Works, and the 
``Dongfeng'' [East Wind] truck, made at the No. 2 Automotive 
Works. 

<FIG ID=JPRS-CST-002C-25A>           The nation's first 7-degrees-of-freedom robot... </FIG>



