BFN 

<F P=106> [Commentary by Miguel Angel de la Guardia from the "Evening </F>
Information Review" newscast] 
  [Text] There is no doubt that the shortage of oil and oil 
by-products is the main economic problem Cuba is currently 
facing. It is the main hardship of the so-called special period 
in the aftermath of the sudden fall of eastern European 
socialism, particularly the fall of socialism in the former 
Soviet Union. This lack of oil has had a widespread effect on 
all types of transportation services, because Cuba has largely 
relied on automotive transportation, which requires not only 
fuel, but also lubricants and other important products. 
  The sugar industry, the most important industry in Cuba, 
which is the world's largest sugar exporter, cannot run without 
petroleum. However, many sugar refineries are using bagasse as 
the main source of fuel for their boilers. 
  In addition, the country's electrical industry also needs 
hydrocarbons to generate energy. Cuba, a small country that 
lacks large rivers and waterfalls needed to build hydroelectric 
plants, has only two alternatives: thermoelectrical plants, 
which also need oil, and nuclear plants. The construction of 
the nuclear plant in Juragua, in the central region, was halted 
when it was almost finished, because the mighty Soviet state, 
which was helping Cuba build its first nuclear plant, suddenly 
disappeared. Thus, the Cuban Government is feverishly 
negotiating with other countries to complete this project vital 
to the national economy. This lack of electricity introduced a 
new predicament to the Cuban population, which is exposed to 
daily power outages that last several hours, usually at times 
when it is most needed. 
  These brief examples allow us to visualize the problems the 
Cuban nation is currently facing, because the world's largest 
power is economically blocking and harassing it to subjugate the 
political resolve of the Cuban population. Cuba, along with 
several European and American countries, has given oil 
exploration a large impetus. Cuba has also been able to 
significantly increase national crude production since 1959, 
when the revolution succeeded. 
  Oil production is expected to amount to 1.3 million tons 
this 
year and will continue to grow in the future. Large amounts of 
this oil used to generate electricity are too heavy and require 
special treatment to reduce the number of breakdowns in the 
industry's already worn-out equipment. 
  Cuba also signed an important agreement with Russia to 
exchange 2.5 million tons of oil for 1 million tons of sugar 
this year. In addition, a joint operation with Mexico is 
already under way to jump start the Cienfuegos oil refinery, 
part of whose output will be bought by and consumed in that 
country. 
  After the incident of an alleged meeting that Colombian 
guerrillas held in Havana, which jeopardized the recently 
established relations between the two countries, there is a 
possibility that Colombia will sell some 120,000 barrels of 
crude oil daily to Cuba within the framework of a transaction 
exclusively regulated by international trade guidelines. Other 
efforts are already under way but have yet to materialize. It 
is expected that the Cuban economy will experience some kind of 
relief this year and will begin surmounting the crisis caused by 
the latest political upheavals. 

