Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by B. Z. Petrenko, Institute of Radio Engineering </F>
and Electronics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow; UDC 
528.852.4] 
  [Abstract] Reliable absolute calibration of microwave 
radiometers is critical to the solution of inverse problems of 
satellite-based passive microwave sensing. Two techniques are 
used for absolute calibration -- onboard calibration (which uses 
radiation either from manmade sources or from natural sources 
unrelated to the target being sensed, or both) and external 
calibration (which uses contrast areas of the Earth's surface). 
The sources in the first technique are called standards; those 
in the second technique, references. Since both techniques have 
merits and drawbacks, the researchers chose to combine their use 
in a technique based on precise knowledge of equivalent 
brightness temperatures of the standards and geophysical 
parameters of the reference areas. In the context of the 
estimation of accuracy associated with the determination of 
ocean-surface temperature and total water vapor mass in the 
atmosphere, they demonstrated that the new technique makes it 
possible to relax the requirements associated with onboard 
standards in achieving acceptable accuracy in determination of 
geophysical parameters. With external calibration based on 
reference areas alone, estimates of calibration factors were 
stabilized. When onboard standards were highly accurate, their 
use made it possible to raise the precision associated with the 
determination of absolute values of geophysical parameters. 
Figures 6, references 12: 10 Russian, 2 Western. 

