Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Leonid Velekhov: "Mr. Shumeyko Has Found the </F>
Golden Mean in Relations With Cuba; Now the Question Is Whether 
They Will Bring a Lot of Gold to Russia"] 
  [Text] The visit to Russia that was concluded last week by 
a Cuban governmental delegation headed by Deputy Chairman of the 
Council of Ministers Lionel Soto, without a doubt, marked a new 
Moscow and Havana rapprochement and, at the same time, a final 
rejection by Russia, apparently, of attempts to get "on board" 
in the anti-Cuban political situation. 
  The new rapprochement was documentarily consolidated in 
trade-economic agreements and in a general Russian-Cuban 
memorandum on the results of the intergovernmental negotiations 
that were signed last Friday. The latter was signed by Mr. Soto 
and First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Government 
Vladimir Shumeyko. Besides this, Mr. Soto and First Deputy Prime 
Minister of Russia Oleg Soskovets signed an agreement on the 
same day about the founding of the Russian-Cuban economic trade 
association Roskuba, whose founders on the Russian side are 
already prepared to come out with about 30 large domestic 
financial-industrial and banking groups, including the 
association Rosneft, Tatneft, certain Urals plants, a number of 
nickel producers, and others. Commenting on this agreement for 
the INTERFAX agency, Mr. Shumeyko declared that it "lowers the 
rank of economic and trade relations from interstate relations 
to relations between producers." 
  Mr. Shumeyko did not rule out that "the signed agreements 
affect the interests of third countries"--those who are buying 
up raw sugar in Cuba in order to sell it to Russia later, but 
now, naturally, at other prices, and those who for political 
considerations would like to hinder the rapprochement of Russia 
and Cuba. He added that he was not interested in political 
assessments of the signed agreements, no matter where they came 
from, and he expressed the hope that Russia henceforth will 
select its economic partners out of economic and not political 
considerations. "We have a lot in common with Cuba, despite the 
political disagreements, and we have found that golden mean 
which will make it possible for us to develop relations with 
this country that are mutually beneficial," Mr. Shumeyko 
generalized. 
  Indeed, Russia has already lost a lot of money by rebuying 
Cuban sugar from third countries. It also happened that Russia 
acted at the bidding of the interests of "still other" third 
countries--the same ones who, for their own political reasons, 
wanted to obstruct the Russo-Cuban rapprochement. And, for 
example, it shamefully abstained last year in the UN during 
voting on the declaration calling on the United States to remove 
the anti-Cuban embargo. 
  Thus, the obstacles in the form of political prejudices have 
been overcome. Not entirely, of course, because however 
paradoxical, the statements themselves of Mr. Shumeyko, as well 
as those of Mr. Soskovets, who declared that for Russia Cuba is 
the same as "the near abroad," contain a lot of superfluous 
political fervor and a desire to "rebuke" recent opponents of 
Russo-Cuban cooperation. 
  In accordance with the signed agreements, Russia will buy 
1.5 
million tonnes of raw sugar from Cuba next year (given an annual 
consumption of about 7 million tonnes and its own 
production--2-2.5 million tonnes). In exchange for this, it will 
deliver 4 million tonnes of oil to Cuba in two stages. This 
ratio is considerably less profitable for Russia than that which 
was planned originally--2 million tonnes of Cuban sugar in 
exchange for 3.3 million tonnes of Russian oil and oil products. 
It can be assumed that the change in the proportion is 
associated with the catastrophic results of the Cuban sugar 
harvest campaign, not the least reason for which was the present 
departure of Russia, which was retrieving its losses, with its 
equipment, spare parts, and diesel oil, from the Caribbean 
island. It can be supposed that Cuba should be advanced at least 
a little money so that it could restore its production of raw 
sugar, which has fallen almost by half. Only in this case would 
it be good to explain the change in the original conditions of 
the agreement, so that doubts would not creep in about whether 
Mr. Shumeyko in fact did find the golden mean. 
  There is one more result of the last negotiations. After 
they 
were over, Oleg Davydov, the minister of foreign economic 
relations of Russia, if one is to believe the television program 
"Vesti," made a statement for all to hear about the problem 
between the two countries in the form of the Cuban debt to 
Russia. And he even divulged its approximate size: More than $20 
billion. It seems that this was the first time that such an 
imposing figure had come out of the mouth of a highly placed 
Russian government person--it had previously circulated in 
unofficial circles and was refuted by the Cuban side and called 
a fantasy. This time there were no denials, and it could be 
assumed that this approximate figure "was adopted as a basis." 
Indeed, having reported it, Mr. Davydov then and there made the 
reservation that he understands that Cuba is insolvent today, 
especially with respect to such large sums. It is difficult not 
to agree with him, if one has in mind only the direct monetary 
servicing of the debt. But, after all, besides it, other forms 
exist. Why not address them and receive from Cuba on account of 
debt servicing not sugar, of course--otherwise what will it use 
in exchange for Russian oil--but citrus fruit, and the wonderful 
Cuban rum, liqueurs, and tobacco articles, long forgotten here? 
And is it not worth it in this case to wait a little with 
"lowering" Russian-Cuban relations from the state level to 
"producer levels?" It is precisely the state level that is 
necessary to resolve this problem. 
  But, in general, summing up: This new rapprochement has to 
be 
employed with discretion, so that it is not transformed into a 
new edition of an old friendship, which did not make either of 
the two countries rich. Russia has many interests in Cuba, which 
in the past two years have been abandoned and neglected and have 
gone off to foreign, tenacious, and solicitous hands. 
  And in conclusion, there is this apocrypha. When Boris 
Yeltsin in 1986 stopped over in Cuba on his way to Nicaragua, 
where he was going as the head of a Soviet party-government 
delegation, Fidel himself came to the airport to meet him, 
although party protocol did not envision such an honor for a 
Politburo candidate member. Castro liked Yeltsin very much; he 
looked after him incessantly, drove him around Havana himself, 
showing him the city--an honor that he had not bestowed on far 
more highly placed guests--and in the end he said about him to 
someone: "He is the only real Leninist in the present Soviet 
leadership." Well, then, old sympathies have now received an 
incentive for revival. 

