CSO 

  [Text] Matsushita Electric Industries has succeeded for the 
first time in obtaining two beams of laser light--red 
semiconductor laser--from a single chip. This device takes 
advantage of both the design and the materials such that two 
semiconductor lasers are integrated on the chip and there is no 
mutual interference by the effect of heat release. Data can be 
transmitted at a speed approximately 2.6 times faster than 
conventional infrared semiconductor lasers, thus making it 
possible to heighten the speed of read and write operations. In 
the future, if this semiconductor laser is combined with a high 
density, large volume optical disk, such an optical disk system 
would probably be applicable as a recording device for Hi-Vision 
images. 
  In obtaining multiple laser light beams from a single chip, 
the various semiconductor lasers are integrated at a fixed 
distance of 50 to 100 microns; and it is necessary to attach 
electrodes to each, and drive them independently. However, in 
red semiconductor lasers which have a short wavelength, the 
thermal transfer index is low compared to infrared semiconductor 
lasers, and it has been difficult to combine two or more on a 
single chip because the temperature quickly rises. 
  The Matsushita chip uses silicon carbide as the material for 
the chip substrate, and this material has superior heat transfer 
properties. A special electrode structure is used in order to 
independently drive the two semiconductor lasers, and techniques 
are used to improve heat release by a highly precise packaging 
technology. Two beams of red light with a wavelength of 680 nm 
and an output of 35 mW can be obtained in parallel, separated by 
a distance of 100æm. 

