BFN 

  [Text] President Hashemi-Rafsanjani spoke by phone with 
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic, and in response to his 
written mesage, talked about the latest situation in the 
conflict areas, especially in Gorazde. 
  In this telephone conversation, our president, referring to 
the deep sorrow of the officials and members of the public, from 
the esteemed leader of the Islamic Revolution down to the 
Government and the people of Iran, for the bitter and painful 
events of Bosnia, which are taking place in front of the 
indifferent eyes of the world, said: When the United Nations 
refused the offer of the Islamic Republic of Iran to dispatch 
forces to defend the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the areas 
that had been declared as safe havens by the same organization, 
the Iranian people realized that international organizations and 
countries are not serious in their claims of defending the 
defenseless people of Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
  The president added: Now that the United Nations has openly 
declared its inability to defend the wronged Bosnian nation, the 
Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to send forces to the areas 
under the supervision of that organization and to defend the 
rights of the Muslim Bosnian people. Iran also welcomes the 
assistance of other countries. 
  Mr. Hashemi-Rafsanjani also asked the president of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina to convey the greetings and feelings of 
sympathy of the Iranian people to the oppressed Bosnian people. 
They should regard the Islamic Republic of Iran as a partner in 
their affliction and they should be assured that, as far as 
possible, the Iranian Government and people will not desert them 
in their struggle to achieve their legitimate rights. 

