BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporter Yu Xiaozhong (0151 1321 1813)] </F>
  [Text] Nanchang, June 16 (XINHUA) -- After the disaster 
brought by torrential rains in early May, the northern to 
southern areas of Jiangxi Province have again received, 
incessantly heavy to torrential rains since 8 June and water 
levels in dams across big and small rivers have risen suddenly, 
causing heavy losses to industrial and agricultural production, 
the state, and the people's lives and property. 
  The average rainfall registered in the entire province 8-14 
June was 197 mm; 80 counties (cities) registered rainfalls of 
over 100 mm, with rainfalls in 38 of these counties (cities) 
exceeding 200 mm and rainfalls in six others exceeding 300 mm. 
The rains persisted over a long time and were heavy this time, 
causing rapid increases in water levels in dams across big and 
small rivers. Water levels along the Chang Jiang [2490 3068], 
the Lean He, the Xiu He, the Xin Jiang, and some tributaries of 
the Gan Jiang successively rose above the warning lines, and 11 
large reservoirs in the province successively opened their 
sluice gates to release flood water. 
  Sustained torrential rains have caused serious flood 
disasters. Incomplete statistics at present reveal that 
provincewide, 46 counties (cities) were hit by flood disasters, 
with over 3.5 million people affected by the disasters, 83,000 
houses damaged, 7,180 houses collapsed, 19 people dead, and over 
400,000 hectares of farm crops destroyed. Because of the 
disasters, 280 industrial and mining enterprises in the province 
totally stopped production and 296 others partially stopped 
production. 
  The Jiangxi provincial party committee and government 
attached utmost importance to flood prevention and fighting, are 
closely monitoring the flood situation, and are organizing and 
giving instructions on flood relief work. All principal party 
and government leaders of prefectures and counties should go 
right to the front line and lead the masses in flood fighting 
and relief work. 
  At present, torrential rains still persist in parts of 
Jiangxi, and the disaster is expanding. 

