BFN 

  [Text] Russia's Ministry for Emergencies plans to buy 
equipment that will make live telecast possible from the 
nuclear-powered submarine Komsomolets that sunk in the Norwegian 
sea on April 7, 1989. There are two torpedoes with nuclear 
warheads, containing 3200 grams of 239-plutonium on board the 
vessel. 
  As was noted at a meeting of senior ministry officials in 
Moscow on Monday, all is ready for an expedition to the 
Norwegian sea. Specialists will sail on the Academician Keldysh 
from Kaliningrad on June 15 to complete their work by August 15. 
  They are to seal off the submarine's front section, conduct 
technical tests on the vessel and check its inflated safe 
chamber, lying on the sea bed six kilometers from Komsomolets. 
  The Deputy Director of the Federal Nuclear Center Arzamas-16 
Stepan Kravchenko disclosed at the meeting that a new device 
would be installed on board Komsomolets to detect uranium and 
plutonium carrying weapons. This will make it possible to 
monitor the level of radioactive pollution continuously even 
after the end of the expedition. 
  Since it is very hard to say how the submarine will fare in 
the future, it should be sealed as quickly as possible, 
Kravchenko said. 
  The ministry expects the beryllium casings of the torpedoes 
with nuclear warheads to be destroyed through corrosion in late 
1995 or early 1996. 
  As a deputy minister Sergey Khetagurov has told Interfax, 
yet 
another expedition to the Norwegian sea is planned next year to 
carry out the second stage of the sealing operation to make 
Komsomolets complete safe. 

