Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By staff reporter: "New Laws Essential To Curb Waste in </F>
Mining"] 
  [Text] It is time the central government set up tough 
legislation to protect the nation's mineral resources from 
random exploitation. 
  Minerals are part of the nation's wealth, but China is 
getting inadequate return from mining because of the industry's 
traditional management and benefit distribution system. 
  Under the old system, mining enterprises were deemed to own 
the minerals they dug out. 
  There was no need for them to pay the State anything so they 
were left to enjoy the fruits of any profits they made. 
  Even now, to get easy cash, some enterprises abandon mines 
once they have dug out the most accessible minerals. 
  Meanwhile, others dig where they please leading to a further 
waste of the nation's resources. 
  The old mining system cannot satisfy consumption when the 
national economy is growing fast. 
  And despite China seemingly having abundant mineral 
resources, the amount per head is less than half the average 
world figure. 
  Mining enterprises, instead of relying on government funds, 
should try to fund exploration for new ores themselves. 
<H5>  Licence </H5>
  The problems in the industry are now so grave that a new 
management system and legislation must be drawn up. 
  The new system should make fresh mineral resources the 
property of the State and mining enterprises should apply for 
licenses to the government before digging starts. In addition, 
they should pay the State for the use of mines. 
  It is also essential that mines improve their equipment and 
technology if they are to avoid further wasting mineral 
resources Only a new management and benefit distribution system 
can ease the industry's growth, improve the supply of raw 
materials and so boost manufacturing in the socialist market 
economy. 

