Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by O. K. Karlina, M. I. Ozhovan, and M. V. Popov; </F>
UDC 666.1:621.039.763] 
  [Abstract] The use of glass composition materials for 
immobilization of radioactive wastes has many advantages over 
uniform glass matrices. Glass composition materials consist of a 
glass matrix of a given composition in which the radioactive 
components are distributed as a dispersed phase. They are 
universal in waste composition and therefore using them makes it 
possible expand the class of treated wastes. Specifically, it is 
possible to immobilize in a glass matrix radioactive wastes 
containing insoluble compounds such as sulfates, molybdates, and 
oxides of heavy metals. Also, the technological process of 
radioactive waste immobilization presupposes a shorter high 
temperature action on the waste material than that of 
traditional methods of glassification. In the present work a 
comparative analysis was made between the two glasses. A maximum 
limiting value was determined for the particle size of the 
included radioactive phase in the glass composition and this 
value was found to be a function of the properties of the glass 
matrix and the coefficient of distribution of the radionucleide 
phase in the matrix. Figures 2; references 8: 6 Russian, 2 
Western. 

