CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Larisa Galina: "Yell. `KRIK' Will Help"] </F>
  [Text] KRIK--criminal information channel--is a new 
emergency assistance service established recently in the city's 
municipal militia. In some ways it is like the famous American 
911 service. Thus, a report on the crash between a gasoline tank 
truck and a trolley bus on Dmitrovskiy Highway, which all Moscow 
was talking about recently, was first received by the 
dispatchers of the Moscow KRIK Service: The driver of an 
automobile, who fortuitously showed up at the scene of the 
accident, transmitted the information over the radio in his 
vehicle. The KRIK dispatchers now receive more than 100 such 
calls in a day--about traffic lights that are not working, road 
accidents, fights, thefts, and other disorders on the streets. 
By far not all Muscovites, of course, have radio stations or 
mobile radio telephones, and the KRIK employees are not trying 
to subordinate the well-known service numbers "02" and "03" to 
themselves. But try to dial these numbers after seeing a fight, 
for example--it is not easy to get through, and indeed there may 
not be a phone booth on the street. It is here that KRIK will 
come to help--it is necessary to tune in on Channel 9 on the 
radio and say the password "Petrovka." But more simply, dial 
telephone number 254 97 09. 

