BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella by Ana </F>
Gerschenson; date and place not given] 
  [Text] [Gerschenson] Does the government have a date for 
President Carlos Menem's trip to London? 
  [Di Tella] Conditions are not right yet. We have meetings 
scheduled for the end of July to discuss the issues of oil 
exploration and fishing. Other issues are also pending, like 
the British opposition to installing the Antarctic Treaty 
Secretariat in Argentina. Then we also have the problem of the 
arms embargo. 
  [Gerschenson] Ambassador Mario Campora told LA PRENSA a few 
days ago that Menem will travel to London "shortly." 
  [Di Tella, laughing] Well, let us hope it will be so. 
  [Gerschenson] It was even mentioned that Menem's visit could 
occur before the end of the year... 
  [Di Tella] Look, "there are no schedules without 
objectives." 
If we resolve those issues before the end of the year, well, it 
could be... 
  [Gerschenson] How would you resolve the problem of oil 
exploration? 
  [Di Tella] It is complex. I feel encouraged by the fact that 
there will be a meeting, but I am not optimistic about the 
results. 
  [Gerschenson] What do you think might happen? 
  [Di Tella] Well, nothing...which means Argentina will have 
to 
legally object to any company attempting to explore for oil in 
the zone. And more so if that company embarks in oil 
exploitation in the area. 
  [Gerschenson] But the islanders have already announced the 
unilateral sale of oil licenses... 
  [Di Tella] If the deals are approved by us it will be all 
right. Otherwise, we will object. Cooperation is indispensable. 
  [Gerschenson] Please describe the legal mechanisms Argentina 
intends to use? 
  [Di Tella] First we will send "letters of discomfort" 
[preceding words in English] to the British Government. They 
will say: "Any company cooperating in the exploitation of our 
oil will be held legally responsible." We will then submit any 
cases to all pertinent international courts. 
  [Gerschenson] Are we negotiating the lifting of the military 
embargo that was imposed by Great Britain in 1982? 
  [Di Tella] I trust and hope the embargo will disappear 
within 
a prudent period -- which will not be two days or two weeks -- 
because it is anachronistic. It will happen sooner or latter. 
  [Gerschenson] What is the status of the contract to supply 
engines for our frigates that Rolls Royce never delivered as a 
consequence of the embargo? 
  [Di Tella] Well, we have problems. I talked with [British 
Foreign Secretary] (Douglas) Hurd about the matter. I have the 
impression there has been a relaxation of the ban because we 
achieved what we wanted with the radar [fitted to the Skyhawk 
planes purchased from the United States]. But I cannot say 
anything further on this issue at this time. 
  [Gerschenson] How are relations over the Malvinas Islands? 
  [Di Tella] Argentina is number 16 in the world. Our word 
carries increasing weight. This is being clearly noted by the 
British and by the islanders. Besides, we have repeatedly 
stated that we respect the islanders way of life. 
  [Gerschenson] Will Argentina respect the islanders desires 
as 
proposed by Great Britain? 
  [Di Tella] We want to respect the British Parliament's 
decision. They are the ones who must approve the treaty 
recognizing sovereignty [as published]. It is clear that 
British legislators's decisions depends basically on the opinion 
of the islanders. That is the way things are... 
  [Gerschenson] But there is also the possibility of us 
becoming the richest country in the world and the islanders 
still wanting to remain British... 
  [Di Tella] That is quite possible. We have not found a 
solution to the problem in the last 160 years. 
  [Gerschenson] When will the job of clearing the islands' 
minefields start? 
  [Di Tella] I think it will start this year. First, the U.S. 
engineers will evaluate the situation in the field. We and the 
islanders want the result to be 100 percent effective. 
  [Gerschenson] When do you think you will be able to travel 
to 
Puerto Argentino [Port Stanley]? 
  [Di Tella] So far one islander has invited me to go to the 
island once the clearing of the minefields is over. he asked me 
to walk through the minefields to check if the job was done 
well. I told him I am willing to do that once the job is 
finished. 
  [Gerscheson] What do you feel about holding a post that is 
almost openly sought by various members of your party, including 
[Interior Minister Carlos] Ruckauf or even [Defense Minister 
Oscar] Camilion? 
  [Di Tella] I am offended by your remark that only two 
individuals want my position. I think 33 million people want 
it. [the entire country's population]. 
  [Gerschenson] It is said that you have direct contact with 
islanders when you travel to London. 
  [Di Tella] Yes, I hold informal meetings with them. 
  [Gerschenson] What do you tell them? 
  [Di Tella] That Argentina is more attractive than ever. That 
the Argentine threat does not exist because we are against 
violent solutions. I remind them that not one Argentine has a 
different opinion. I tell them we will claim sovereignty for 
ever [preceding two words in English]. 
  [Gerschenson] And what do they say? 
  [Di Tella] Well...they tell me they will be British for ever 
[preceding two words in English]. 

