Language: <F P=105> Urdu </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Tehsimul Haq Haqi: "Need for Effective Steps To </F>
Control Drugs"] 
  [Text] A lot has been written about the abuse and ill 
effects of drugs. However, no effective steps have been taken to 
stop this curse. This has resulted in escalated abuse by the 
younger generation. According to a report issued by the director 
of intelligence, about 1.2 million people are addicted to this 
ugly habit. From among 45,000 prisoners, 12,000 were arrested 
for crimes related to the drug trade. In some areas of Punjab as 
many as 40 percent of the population is involved in the drug 
trade. According to the findings of a U.S. drug expert, drug 
traders are earning $1.22 billion from the heroin trade alone. 
The question arises: can we afford to spend that much money? The 
administration should consider how much money they spend to 
control the drug trade. The little work being done to control 
drug abuse in Pakistan is insufficient. Even now 200,000 new 
persons fall prey to drug abuse each year. If people continued 
to become drug addicts at this rate, the time is not far off 
when 15 percent of Pakistan's population will be suffering from 
this addiction. The former caretaker prime minister, Mayueen 
Qureshi, had a list of drugs smugglers which included over 160 
very influential persons from our country. Because of political 
considerations this list was neither made public nor were these 
smugglers arrested. Now after the removal of the caretaker 
government, this whole affair seems to have been totally 
ignored. It is not expected that a political government will 
touch influential persons. The second problem is that, because 
of the specific kind of government and life style in our tribal 
areas, the drug dealers move there to avoid arrest. Others get 
support from political leaders and move to Afghanistan, which is 
famous for producing and smuggling drugs all over the world. 
  According to a report issued by an international narcotics 
control agency, Afghanistan is second after Burma for exporting 
opium. The figures included in this report show that poppy 
cultivation increased by 12 percent in Afghanistan last year 
(1992), and 14,790 hectares was used for cultivating poppy. This 
will harvest 640 metric tons of opium. In Langaryar and Halmand 
provinces of Afghanistan, 75 percent of the land is used for 
growing opium. If the Afghan people want, they could take 
concrete steps to stop drug abuse. Drug abuse is extremely 
dangerous for people, and they cannot adjust themselves to their 
environments. This reduces their judgment ability. The curse of 
drug abuse cannot be controlled by rhetoric and statements given 
to the press. This curse can be ended only when concrete steps 
are taken. Not only this, strict action is necessary against 
those who are involved in this trade. Our younger generation can 
play an important role in this context if they unite and resolve 
to stop the rising tide of drug abuse and its negative effects. 
If they do that, there is no reason that we cannot rid society 
of the evils of drug dealers and drug abuse. 

