Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Pyongyang, March 18 (KCNA) -- The U.S. imperialists 
staged an all-round air war exercise targeted against the North 
on March 16 by mobilizing formations of fighter-bombers, 
pursuit-assault planes and VTOL [vertical take-off and landing] 
assault planes from their overseas bases, in coordination with 
flying corps of the U.S. Seventh Air Force in South Korea, 
according to military sources. 
  More than 350 planes of various types were flown in the 
exercise, which was staged with the air above Kapyong, Yongwol 
and Kongju, South Korea, as the operation theatre, for the 
purpose of intensive bombing, aerial warfare, support for ground 
units and airlifting. 
  Meanwhile, groups of large-calibre artillery pieces and 
bandits of the South Korean puppet army fired more than 100 
shells and 1,500 bullets at spots adjacent to the Demilitarized 
Zone and toward the Military Demarcation Line from Paju and 
Yonchon Counties, Kyonggi Province, and Chorwon County, South 
Korean Kangwon Province, on the 16th. 
  Formations of several dozen helicopter gunships and 
transport 
helicopters belonging to the puppet army staged an exercise for 
supporting ground units and airlifting in the air above Yonchon 
County and Inje and Chorwon Counties, South Korean Kangwon 
Province. 
  The frantic war gamble directed against the northern half of 
Korea fully revealed the bellicose nature of the U.S. 
imperialists and the South Korean puppets. 

