CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Boris Konovalov, IZVESTIYA correspondent: </F>
"Russian Granat Satellite Wins Records to the Joy of Scientists 
Throughout the World"; the first paragraph is an introduction] 
  [Text] Satellites, like people, experience both sad and 
happy fates. The Granat, a satellite constructed by the NPO 
Lavochkin, was probably the luckiest of all those Russian 
satellites intended for exoatmospheric astronomy. According to 
the guarantees, it was to operate for only 8 months, but it is 
already in its fifth year and to the joy of its constructors it 
is transmitting ever-newer results. 
  The Granat, providing world scientists with the most 
different discoveries, recently discovered two objects which are 
of burning interest for modern astronomy: these are so-called 
binary X-ray sources. One of them is a black hole, whereas the 
second is a "donor," a supplier of matter for it. These objects, 
by analogy with ordinary astronomy, were called X-ray novae. 
Visualize that in the course of a single day an X-ray source 
flares up which becomes one of the brightest in the X-radiation 
range. Its luminosity increases for several days. The optical 
telescopes register in its place a star which is simultaneously 
increasing its brightness by a factor of 1000; there also is a 
great increase in its radio emission. 
  A Granat sensation was the first experimental discovery of 
several regions of annihilation of positrons and electrons in 
the universe, that is, encounters of matter and antimatter. 
Earlier this was only a conclusion drawn by theoreticians, a 
postulated but not fully demonstrated phenomenon. The French 
feel that this result alone justifies all their expenditures on 
the development and construction of the Sigma telescope carried 
aboard the satellite which has a mass of an entire ton and which 
cost 200 million francs. 
  A mysterious region attracting scientists is the center of 
our Galaxy, always shrouded in dense clouds. Many have assumed 
that hidden behind them there is a massive black hole with 
several millions of solar masses. The Granat removed the curtain 
of secrecy. The clouds are no hindrance for X-rays and over the 
course of four years the Russian Artpe telescope tracked the 
center of the Galaxy. 
  "We registered weak variable X-radiation of the center of 
our 
Galaxy," says Academician R. Syunyayev, scientific director of 
the experiment with the Granat observatory. "But the radiation 
was much less than the radiation of the typical center of an 
active galaxy. Possibly for some reason our `black hole' is not 
being fed. It is not precluded that new surprises may be 
discovered at any time. The Granat is continuing its brilliantly 
successful flight, exhibiting a surprising longevity for the 
very complex and costly ensemble of scientific instruments and 
the satellite itself." 

