Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by I. A. Sobolev, S. V. Stefanovskiy, and F. A. </F>
Lifanov; UDC 621.039.73 
  [Abstract] A basic way to increase the reliability of 
isolating radioactive wastes from the biosphere is through 
immobilization in chemically, thermally, and radiationally 
stable in materials having long time periods of stability. This 
requirement is met most nearly in synthetic mineral-like 
materials--analogs of natural rocks, which are known to remain 
stable over geological periods of time. In the 1970's a titanate 
ceramic called SYNROC (synthetic rock) was developed in 
Australia from perovskite, zirconolite, and chollandite minerals 
by hot pressing at 10[.sup]2[/]-10[.sup]3[/] MPa pressures 
and 1200-1400ë C temperatures. However, this method presents 
great technological difficulties from the standpoint of 
equipment design. A more convenient method to synthesize SYNROC 
is from the melt and the first modification, SYNROC-A was thus 
prepared. In the present work other modifications, SYNROC-A, -B, 
-C, and -D were prepared in crucibles in a silicon carbide 
furnace and by induction melting in a cold crucible. The 
synthesized samples contained 10 and 15 percent by weight of 
oxides of liquid and solid radioactive wastes. Properties of the 
molten materials not containing the wastes are analogous to 
materials prepared by hot pressing. Introduction of an oxide of 
a medium-level radioactive waste material to SYNROC-B lowers its 
chemical stability. The effectiveness of preparing SYNROC type 
ceramics by induction melting in a cold crucible was 
demonstrated. Figures 3; references 18: 7 Russian, 11 Western. 

