Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> ["Special article" by Hsieh I-Hsi (6200 6654 3305) and Kuo </F>
Cheng-jung (6753 2052 2837): Fujian Checks Tendency of 
Smuggling Out Illegal Emigrants"] 
  [Text] Fuzhou, 18 Jan (WEN WEI PO)--In the latter half of 
last year, due to the infiltration of international human 
smuggling rings, activities of smuggling out illegal emigrants 
were rampant along the coastal areas of Fuzhou. In order to reap 
huge profits, "snakeheads" [leaders of the smuggling gangs] were 
careless of the lives of the illegal emigrants and 
consequently, eight illegal migrants died in a "strange land" 
when the freighter Golden Venture ran aground on the U.S. East 
Coast. The central authorities and the provincial and city 
governments were shocked by this incident and it was not until 
then that the special anti-illegal emigration operation, which 
had been secretly launched for a long time, was made public. A 
few days ago, this reporter visited Fuzhou City, one of the 
areas where smuggling activities of illegal emigrants are most 
severe and learned that the operation had achieved remarkable 
results in the past six months. 
  According to statistics, the authorities cracked 53 cases of 
smuggling out illegal emigrants, seized 932 people, and ferreted 
out 205 "snakeheads" who organized and plotted activities of 
smuggling out illegal emigrants inside and outside the 
territory. Of these, 127 "snakeheads" were arrested and brought 
to justice. Meanwhile, 163 criminals organizing smuggling 
activities and conveying illegal emigrants were seized and 14 
smuggling ships were confiscated. Officials of Fuzhou City said 
that activities of smuggling out illegal emigrants have 
basically stopped. 
<H5>  All-Out Interception and Key Spots on Guard </H5>
  It was learned that measures taken by Fuzhou City in its 
special operation of fighting against illegal emigration were 
mainly as follows: "Spreading propaganda among the masses, 
educating them, and fighting against major cases," "calling on 
the masses to inform against smuggling cases and assigning 
public security personnel to investigate and punish those 
cases," "pursuing smugglers at sea and intercepting them on 
land," and "guarding key spots and imposing full control." 
Apart from integrating these measures into a single whole, 
decisions concerning the number of personnel, time, tasks, and 
responsibilities were all fixed and implemented at every level. 
Likewise, precautionary measures were taken at every level. 
  Border defense and public security personnel being on guard 
at ports strengthened shipping administration at ports, bays, 
and ferries; supervised fixed spots, ships, posts, and locations 
at 396 ports and bays; and ordered various types of 17,672 ships 
to register with the authorities again and receive new codes and 
permits. Meanwhile, since it had become a characteristic that 
most illegal emigrants did not board smuggling ships at 
localities in which their permanent residences were registered, 
the authorities imposed greater control over inns and hotels in 
various localities. Stations were set up in public places and 
localities with a large number of floating population for 
nonnative people to report to and the authorities attached 
importance to the work of ferreting out suspects involved in 
activities of smuggling out illegal emigrants. 
  Contingent forces were specially organized to deal with 
emergent cases of smuggling illegal emigrants. 
<H5>  Line of Defense Against Illegal Emigration Set on the Sea </H5>
  Departments of border defense and public security redeployed 
forces for patrol and inspection at sea and transferred 12 ships 
and boats to strengthen patrols at sea. A line of defense 
against illegal emigration was established on the maritime space 
from Luoyuan Wan in the north to Pingyun in the south. 
  In key villages along the coast, concerned departments 
strengthened education and imposed stricter control on three 
kinds of people, that is: People within the key age groups for 
illegal emigration, people with past records of illegal 
emigration, and people suspected of taking part in activities of 
smuggling out illegal emigrants. Moreover, rules and 
regulations were set up in every native village which was 
considered a unit, to implement the village-cadre contract 
responsibility system, to intensify the registration of foreign 
population, and to vigorously plug the loopholes which key 
target groups of people were beyond control. 
<H5>  Severe Punishment of a Number of "Snakeheads" </H5>
  Moreover, people organizing illegal emigration and conveying 
illegal emigrants were severely punished by judicial departments 
in Fuzhou City in accordance with the law. On 15 July 1993, the 
first rally to pronounce judgments on criminals since the start 
of the anti-illegal emigration struggle was held by Fuzhou City 
Intermediate Court in Fuzhou City Workers' Cultural Palace. On 
the basis of the law, the court sentenced 32 criminals smuggling 
illegal emigrants to one to five years' imprisonment, announced 
the arrests of 15 other criminals for smuggling illegal 
emigrants, and sent 44 illegal emigrants to 
reeducation-through-labor camps. Among them, Chen Xingnuan and 
Wu Baohua--two criminals from Changle County--introduced a total 
of 17 persons to a "snakehead" called Zhang to join him in 
smuggling activities organized by him. On 5 January 1993, 17 
illegal emigrants organized by Chen and Wu boarded a ship in 
Taishan, Guangdong, to emigrate to the United States, but they 
were later repatriated to China. The two criminals--Chen and 
Wu--violated state laws and regulations on immigration and 
emigration constituting the crime of organizing others to slip 
out of the country. Consequently, Chen Xingnuan was sentenced 
to five years' imprisonment and fined 30,000 yuan; whereas Wu 
Baohua was sentenced to five years' imprisonment and fined 
10,000 yuan. It is learned that over the past six months, 
political and legal organs at all levels throughout the city 
have punished a total of 208 criminals organizing and plotting 
activities of illegal emigration and conveying illegal 
emigrants. Of these, 15 were imprisoned, 18 were sent to 
reeducation-through-labor camps, 100 were detained and tried, 33 
were fined, and seven were under house arrest. In addition, 
permission was sought from public security organs at higher 
levels to ask Interpol to help pursue six plotters in large 
foreign smuggling rings who were at large. Meanwhile, strict 
precautions were taken to deal with the new situation of illegal 
emigration from other places which started to emerge not long 
ago. Over the past four months, 10 such cases of illegal 
emigration to the United States and Japan have been cracked and 
a total of 422 people arrested. Moreover, 11 cases of illegal 
emigration in which Taiwanese freighters were directly involved 
have been cracked. 
<H5>  U.S. Police Agree To Cooperate With Fuzhou City Government </H5>
  Apart from taking stronger action to fight and guard against 
smuggling activities, the government of Fuzhou City also 
succeeded in enlisting the cooperation of U.S. police. On 26 
October 1993, during their visit to the United States, Fang 
Qingyun, vice president of Fuzhou City's Association for 
Friendship with Foreign Countries, and Wang Yingquan, vice 
chairman of Fuzhou City People's Congress Standing Committee, 
made a special trip to call on Holliday, deputy chief of New 
York City Police Headquarters. They briefed Holliday on the 
situation and causes of illegal immigration into the United 
States by a small number of people from coastal areas in Fuzhou 
as well as on measures taken by Fuzhou City People's Government 
to stop illegal emigration. They also asked the U.S. side for 
future cooperation to stop illegal migration. The New York City 
Police expressed their understanding and appreciation in this 
respect and agreed to cooperate with the Chinese side by taking 
joint measures to stop illegal migration. 
<H5>  Two Township and Town Officials Dismissed </H5>
  Another work meeting on fighting against illegal emigration 
was held in Fuzhou City at the beginning of the new year. At 
the meeting, Xi Jinping, member of the Fujian Provincial CPC 
Committee Standing Committee and secretary of the Fuzhou City 
CPC Committee, again urged governments at all levels not to 
lower their guard on the issue of illegal emigration. He 
stressed that for those officials who were so slack in the work 
of fighting against illegal emigration that grave consequences 
followed, it was necessary to resolutely investigate and affix 
their responsibilities, including transferring them to other 
posts or dismissing them. It was learned that two township and 
town officials had been dismissed because they did not exert 
themselves in fighting against illegal emigration and that 
Fuzhou City would pass sentences on and punish a number of 
people organizing smuggling activities and conveying illegal 
emigrants. 

