Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by O. A. Volkovitskiy, A. V. Kalsin, T. V. Kozina, </F>
V. T. Milchenko, N. V. Tereb, N. M. Troyanova, Tayfun Scientific 
Production Association; UDC 551.510.41] 
  [Abstract] Preliminary results of measurement of the total 
content and altitude concentration distribution of ozone are 
presented. Measurements were made from the Meteor-3 satellite 
with a BUFS-2 ultraviolet spectrometer. The information 
processing method is outlined, and simultaneous results obtained 
from the US TOMS ozone meter on the Meteor-3 are presented. The 
BUFS-2 instrument is a diffraction spectrometer with double 
monochromatization (dispersion subtraction) of the incident 
radiation. There are twelve spectral channels in the 255-340 nm 
range, with one channel at 388 nm in continuous operation. 
Ratios of atmospheric albedo are measured at a pair of 
wavelengths and compared with previously calculated values of 
these ratios for various ozone content figures. A figure 
contrasts ozone content findings from the BUFS-2 and the TOMS 
instruments for various latitudes. The Antarctic ozone hole is 
evident. Figures give the ozone concentration altitude 
distribution for Antarctica, the tropics, the middle latitudes, 
and the small ozone hole at 38.9N 111.5W formed by intrusion of 
a tropical air mass at the middle latitudes. Experimental data 
are contrasted with model data. The derivation of the model is 
described. Figures 3; table 1; references 16: 9 Russian, 7 
Western. 

