BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Francisco Gomez and Lorenzo Garibay] </F>
  [Text] Tijuana, Baja California, 8 May -- Given its 
geographic location, its almost 40 km of common border with the 
richest state in the United States, and its economic potential, 
this city has been one of the areas most contested by drug gangs 
and cartels that operate in Mexico. This is particularly true 
of the those led by the Arellano Felix brothers and by Hector 
Palma Salazar, alias El Guero Palma. 
  The war among drug trafficking mafias has left behind a wake 
of death and violence. In the past two years more than 50 
"executions" have taken place involving the death of people 
linked to these two gangs that are vying for control of this 
area, which is strategic for drug trafficking. 
  Tijuana, which is a natural stepping stone en route to the 
world's largest drug consuming market, has been known for its 
large numbers of drug seizures. In the past 16 months in this 
area approximately 65,500 kg of marijuana and 16,316 kg of 
cocaine, as well as 10 kg of heroin, have been seized, 
demonstrating that this is a place favored by drug traffickers, 
according to the Attorney General's Office. 
  The streets in this city have been the scene of drug 
trafficking gang rivalries and of police complicity with these 
gangs, as well as an increase in drug abuse among the community, 
particularly among youths. 
  So far this year, five deaths have been attributed to the 
drug trafficking groups. Of these deaths, the murder of 
Alejandro Castaneda Andre, commander of the special group of the 
Judicial Federal Police [PFJ], and the 28 April murder of 
Federico Benitez Lopez, director of Municipal Public Security 
and of his driver Ramon Alerid Cardenas, stand out. In this 
last case, no one has been arrested, and there are no leads. In 
the Castaneda Andrade case, however, a state judicial police 
officer, who was in the company of a group of drug traffickers, 
and a "godmother" were arrested. Nevertheless, what is most 
remarkable is that legal action was taken against Sergio Ortiz 
Lara, the state's deputy prosecutor, for helping in the escape 
of members of the Arellano Felix gangs. 
  According to an investigation conducted by the National Poll 
on drug use in Baja California and Tijuana, in particular, the 
community is becoming a large consumer market, particularly for 
drugs such as cocaine and crack. In the study, it is pointed out 
that the results indicate that the majority of the youths polled 
in junior high and high schools started abusing drugs before 
they were 15. 
  The struggle by drug cartels to impose their control on this 
area has given way to the so-called "executions" that in the 
last 24 months have taken as victims a state judicial police 
agent; Wenceslao Berinstain Avila, a former Attorney General's 
Office agent; Pedro Rodriguez Moreno, a customs agent; Israel 
Alvarado Acosta and an associate; and Jose Luis Stavinsky, son 
of a well-know Tijuana businessman, in addition to many other 
victims. The majority of these cases remain unpunished. 
  The drug cartels' struggle for this city and other important 
sites for drug trafficking activities came out in the open a 
year ago in Guadalajara, Jalisco, when Cardinal Juan Jesus 
Posada Ocampo and six other individuals were murdered. The 
incident took place during a confrontation at the Guadalajara 
airport among groups led by the Arellano Felix brothers; Joaquin 
Guzman Loera, alias El Chapo Guzman; and El Guero Palma. 
Previously a confrontation had taken place among them at the 
disco Christine de Puerto Vallarta. 
  The Arellano Felix brothers--Ramon, Benjamin, and 
Javier--are 
the ones who have controlled this activity in Tijuana in the 
past few years, after they inherited control from their uncle 
Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo. Felix Gallardo during his time and 
up until his incarceration at the high security penitentiary in 
Almoloya, Juarez, was considered the capo of Mexico's largest 
drug trafficking ring. 
  Arellano Felix's power and influence became obvious when 35 
safe houses, a farm, and an industrial factory were seized. In 
the factory an unfinished tunnel was uncovered. This tunnel was 
to connect this city with San Diego to smuggle drugs into the 
United States. 
  Recently the PGR sold off properties belonging to this gang 
consisting of 12 furniture lots, stuffed animals, vintage wines, 
paintings and sculptures of well-known artists, and other 
ostentatious articles, the starting bidding price of which was 
134,642 pesos. Two days before, 11 homes that had been seized 
were put on public auction; however, only one was sold, the 
price of which is unknown. The company in charge of carrying out 
this operation was Avaluos Integrales S.A. de CV, contracted by 
the PGR itself. 
  Up until now, the Arrellano Felix brothers remain at large, 
with the exception of Francisco Javier Arellano Felix who in 
December was arrested by the PJF in this city. He was 
transferred to the Almoloya high security jail in Juarez where 
his staunch rival, Joaquin Guzman, alias El Chapo Guzman, has 
been since June. El Chapo Guzman was arrested in Guatemala and 
turned over to the Mexican authorities. 
  The last time any news was heard about the Arellano Felix 
gang was on 3 March during the shoot out in which Alexandro 
Castaneda Andrade, commander of the special group of the PFJ in 
that city, was killed. Andrade had located the site where 
Javier Arellano Felix, alias El Tigrillo, and his lieutenant 
Ismael Higuera Guerrero, alias El Mayel, were hiding. However, 
he was killed during the confrontation when he attempted to 
arrest them. The case still has not been totally cleared up, 
but, according to versions of the PRG itself, El Tigrillo and El 
Mayel had already been arrested but were released by state 
police agents, allegedly by deputy prosecutor Sergio Ortiz Lara 
himself. Ortiz Lara is currently under arrest for his alleged 
responsibility in this case. 
  The most recent victim here of the drug trafficking groups 
was Federico Benitez Lopez, director of Municipal Security 
Police, and his driver Alarid Cardenas, who were murdered 10 
days ago on the highway in La Mesa. Benitez Lopez became known 
for the confiscation of weapons and marijuana in that city. 
  Benitez Lopez held that post for five months, when the drug 
trafficking phenomena was to be attacked in a joint action on 
three government levels. Nevertheless, the plans failed due to 
the rivalries among the different police corps and the 
corruption spread by the distribution of dollars by organized 
crime. 
  The large drug cargoes that reach this border have resulted 
in a peculiar phenomena: San Diego California drug addicts come 
to trade weapons for drugs. This was reported by David Rubi, 
chief of the Tactical Group, who affirmed that weekly a weapon 
known as a goat's horn [cuerno de chivo] is found in the hands 
of gang members in this city's poor neighborhoods. 

