Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Attorney General Aristides Junqueira by </F>
Joyce Russi and Bartolomeu Rodrigues in Brasilia on 10 February] 
  [Text] Brasilia -- Attorney General Aristides Junqueira on 
10 February asserted that the only way to prevent the 
promulgation of the Social Emergency Fund (FSE) from being 
reviewed by the Federal Supreme Court (STF) is by concluding the 
constitutional revision work as scheduled on 15 March. Junqueira 
believes that the possibility of extending the deadline 
established by Congress' internal regulations -- the party 
leaders already are negotiating to extend the deadline until 30 
April -- does not allow the promulgation of amendments in stages 
as they are approved, a process known as "salami amendments" 
[promulgating them slice by slice], because otherwise there 
would be a risk of turning the constitutional revision into an 
endless process. This is why the attorney general wants to file 
a case before the Federal Supreme Court to prevent the 
promulgation of amendments by stages, although he is sure that 
the political parties that oppose the constitutional revision 
will do so before him. 
  [O ESTADO] Couldn't your intention to resort to the Federal 
Supreme Court if the Social Emergency Fund is promulgated create 
a new crisis among the government branches? 
  [Junqueira] That is exactly my concern. Article 3 of the 
Temporary Dispositions of the Constitution allows a 
constitutional revision five years after its proclamation. The 
criterion in that article are flexible and allow changes in a 
much easier way than what is established in the text of the 
Constitution. It establishes that the amendments must be 
approved by three-fifths of the congressmen in a simultaneous 
voting session in the two chambers and in two voting rounds. 
According to Article 3, all the constitutional amendments must 
be promulgated at the same time. Thus, we have two 
alternatives: either to close the constitutional revision 
process once an amendment is proclaimed, or to strictly comply 
with the period of time established to finish the work [to 
proclaim all the amendments together]. If the deadline is 
extended, the revision will run the risk of lasting indefinitely. 
  [O ESTADO] Even if Congress' internal regulations allow the 
promulgation of amendments as they are approved? 
  [Junqueira] That is not appropriate based on the 
interpretation of Article 3 of the Transitory Dispositions and 
the text of the Constitution itself. However, if the 
constitutional revision ends on the established date, the 
problem would be smaller because then the promulgation of 
amendments by parts would be irrelevant. We need to know the 
size of the salami. 
  [O ESTADO] And if the work was extended a short period of 
time? 
  [Junqueira] An extension is not possible. The two things do 
not combine with each other. 
  [O ESTADO] Isn't this an internal congressional problem? 
  [Junqueira] No, it is a constitutional problem that pertains 
to the Federal Supreme Court. 
  [O ESTADO] Then you will not think twice about filing a case 
before the Federal Supreme Court if the Social Emergency Fund is 
promulgated? 
  [Junqueira] If any deputy decides to file a case before the 
Federal Supreme Court after an amendment is promulgated, the 
court will have to make a decision. This is a serious matter 
that deserves juridical analysis. Whoever wishes to object to 
the constitutional revision through an injunction will have 
considerable arguments to do so. 
  [O ESTADO] Would you do that? 
  [Junqueira] If a second amendment is promulgated, I 
understand that the constitutional revision will have ended with 
the promulgation of the first one. 
  [O ESTADO] Is this a threat to the constitutional revision? 
  [Junqueira] I am not threatening but calling attention to a 
problem that may be created. 
  [O ESTADO] Are you against the constitutional revision right 
now? 
  [Junqueira] It is not my business to give an opinion about 
the constitutional revision. 
  [O ESTADO] Don't the latest scandals justify a 
constitutional 
revision to give the judicial branch more efficient instruments 
with which to combat corruption? 
  [Junqueira] Will they really be revised? 
  [O ESTADO] Why wouldn't they? 
  [Junqueira] Because they affect the congressmen themselves. 
  [O ESTADO] Would Congress corporatism reach that point? 
  [Junqueira] I do not know. I hope not. My concern is that we 
are always worried with amending the Constitution rather than 
complying with it. That is not the way I understand the 
Constitution. I understand it as something that limits the 
actions of government. If those limits did not exist or were 
amended by any absolute majority with the easiness of this 
revision, I do not think our future will be too good. 
  [O ESTADO] Are you in favor of external control of the 
Judicial Branch? 
  [Junqueira] Yes, as long as it does not interfere with the 
conscience of the judges. I think a control would be very 
healthy in the disciplinary field. The judicial branch's 
self-control has been very inefficient to correct the mistakes 
or defects of some judges. I even dare to imagine a mutual 
control among the magistrates, the Attorney General's Office, 
and the Brazilian Attorney's Association. Each one could control 
each other through mechanisms that would allow bad judges or bad 
prosecutors or bad lawyers to be fired. 

