Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] President of the Republic Lieutenant General 'Umar 
al-Bashir has congratulated the Sudanese masses on the coming of 
the blessed 'Id al-Fitr, calling for adherence to solidarity, 
altruism and remembrance of God. 
  In his address to the citizens to mark the coming of the 
blessed 'Id al-Fitr, his excellency referred to the oppression 
directed against Muslims in many parts of the Islamic world, 
particularly in Palestine and Bosnia-Herzegovina, where the 
Serbs were murdering Muslims, helped by the conspiracy of 
international silence which prevents the Muslims from obtaining 
arms with which to defend themselves against Serbian aggression, 
while the Zionist criminals kill worshipers in Palestine without 
any regard for Islam. Lt. Gen. 'Umar al-Bashir said that in 
spite of that, hearts have not despaired of the mercy of God, 
for goodness still prevails in Muhamad's nation and in the ranks 
of the mujahedin fighting in God's cause who have come together 
to win victory for God's religion. 
  The president of the Republic praised the fighters of the 
armed forces and the People's Defense Forces for making great 
sacrifices in their efforts to bring security to the south of 
the country. He praised them for sheltering the deprived 
migrants whose property has been destroyed and whose children 
have been kidnapped, having been scorned in their efforts to 
uphold the unity and sovereignty of Sudan. 
  Lt. Gen. al-Bashir said: We (?foresee) that peace will come 
soon by virtue of the efforts being made inside the country to 
secure the fearful, feed the hungry, and to repair what the war 
has destroyed; also by virtue of the mediation efforts being 
made by the African brothers to bring the parties to the 
negotiating table. On the occasion of the blessed auspicious 
'Id al-Fitr, his excellency called for peace aspired to by the 
sons of Sudan at home with the help of friends and brothers. 

