Language: <F P=105> Latvian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Anda Mikelsone: "The Number of Inhabitants of </F>
Latvia Will Decrease"] 
  [Text] Riga, 24 Feb -- Since the end of the 1980's, a 
steady decrease of the birthrate in Latvia can be observed. At 
the beginning of the 1990's, there was already a negative 
birthrate in the country. In 1993, the number of people living 
in Latvia decreased by 12,000. Last year, 27,300 babies were 
born -- 4,300 fewer than during the previous year. Currently, 
the birthrate in Latvia is lower than the European average. In 
addition, forecasts by Professor Peteris Zvirgzdins, head of the 
Statistics and Demographics Department at Latvian University, 
are not optimistic -- he predicts that the birthrate in Latvia 
may continue decreasing until the year 2010. 
  At the end of the last year, specialists from Latvian 
University completed a study entitled: "The Forecast for 
Latvian Demographic Development in the Period 1993-2003," in 
which data can be found outlining perspective demographic 
development in all of Latvia's regions and towns. According to 
this study, over the next 10 years the number of inhabitants 
will decrease by 142,000 people; in Riga alone, it may decrease 
by 108,000. 
  P. Zvirgzdins predicts that the birthrate could eventually 
increase, nearing the level necessary for generational 
replacement, but only after another 15 or 20 years, when people 
born in the mid-1980's begin thinking about having children of 
their own -- at that time, the birthrate was at its highest 
level: the number of babies born yearly was about 13,000-14,000 
more than the number being delivered today. 
  In addition, the overall birth coefficient, which indicates 
how many children a woman bears in her lifetime, has decreased. 
In 1986-1987, the coefficient stood at 2.15, but now it has 
already decreased to 1.4. According to P. Zvirgzdins, this 
figure can increase to 1.9 by 2003, but it still has to reach of 
level of at least 2.1 before generational replacement can be 
achieved. 
  The birthrate is also being considerably effected by the 
number of marriages, which has been decreasing over recent 
years. In 1993, 14,000 marriages were registered, and this is 
8,000 fewer than in 1991. At the same time, the number of 
dissolved marriages remains at a very high level; the highest in 
the world -- in 1992, 77 out of 100 registered marriages were 
dissolved, but in 1993 -- 71. 
  Last year, in comparison with the previous year, almost 
4,000 
more people died than in 1992. Plus, the average lifespan is 
also decreasing. According to P. Zvirgzdins, the average 
lifespan for a man in Latvia in 1988 was 66.3 years, for a woman 
-- 75.1 years; last year, men lived approximately 61 years, 
women -- 73 years. 
  P. Zvirgzdins is of the opinion that in great measure the 
reasons for the decreasing birthrate could be the present 
economic difficulties and the government's passive attitude 
toward the solution of demographic problems. Young couples are 
left to fend for themselves entirely. 

