BFN 

  [Text] Hong Kong, June 26 (XINHUA) -- A political party 
entitled the Democratic Alliance for Betterment of Hong Kong 
(DABHK) is to solicit donations from local residents for the 
flood-stricken Chinese provinces today. 
  It will install relief fund boxes at 34 sections in major 
streets on the Hong Kong Island and in Kowloon and the New 
Territories, calling passers-by to offer help to flood-affected 
population. 
  It is reported that the Hong Kong branch of the XINHUA NEWS 
AGENCY has received 126 million HK [Hong Kong] dollars (16.1 
million U.S. dollars) of relief funds provided by people in all 
walks of life in Hong Kong so far. 
  Meanwhile, the Red Cross Society of Hong Kong has collected 
a 
donation of 7.58 million HK dollars (971,700 U.S. dollars) by 
yesterday. It has used 4 million dollars to purchase goods 
badly needed in the flood-hit areas and delivered the goods to 
China. 
  The Asia Television Station of Hong Kong raised 7.98 million 
HK dollars (one million U.S. dollars) by staging a charity 
performance on July 24. 
  The Chinese newspaper "WEN WEI PO" got 610,000 HK dollars 
(78,200 U.S. dollars) of relief funds yesterday, making the 
total sum of donation it has received so far to 7.1 million HK 
dollars (910,200 U.S. dollars). 
  Heavy rains from tropical storm Sharon hit some southern 
Chinese provinces last night worsening the disaster which has 
already claimed nearly 800 lives. 
  Flood has washed away 1.7 million homes, damaged 
embankments, 
wiped out large tracts of rice and vegetable fields in much of 
the six southern Provinces. 

