Language: <F P=105> Ukrainian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Kiev -- The government has made public the 
resolution "On the State Regulation of Prices for Petroleum 
Products," signed by Acting Ukrainian Prime Minister Yukhym 
Zvyahilskyy on 25 January. In accordance with the resolution, 
prices for petroleum products, including those purchased as 
imports, that are sold on the territory of Ukraine by 
entrepreneurial entities regardless of the forms of their 
ownership, must not exceed the levels established. 
  The price for oil bought in CIS countries under interstate 
contracts is accepted at the level determined by these 
contracts. The price for oil bought under direct contracts 
[between enterprises] or from commercial structures, must not 
exceed that level by more than 10 percent. The price for oil 
imported from other countries cannot exceed the world price. 
  Wholesale and factory prices for petroleum products produced 
by Ukraine's oil refineries and sold by them on the domestic 
market are determined with account taken of the maximum level of 
profitability to the amount of 25 percent of the full cost price 
of the manufacture of products. 
  In selling petroleum products on the territory of Ukraine, 
including imported petroleum products -- except for fuel for 
domestic use in stoves and as lamp kerosene, the following 
maximum levels of profitability are established, as applied to 
the turnover of these products: For oil and petroleum products 
of supply enterprises under the control of DerzhKomNaftoHaz, no 
more than seven percent; for enterprises and organizations 
within UkrAhroTekhServis, no more than 1.5 percent. 

