Language: <F P=105> Vietnamese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article: "Antidrug Education in Schools--Drug Addiction, </F>
Production, and Trade Today"] 
  [Excerpts] According to World Health Organization data, the 
world as a whole has 50 million drug addicts using 3,303 tons of 
opium annually. Southeast Asia has about 5 million addicts using 
1,889 tons of opium. Our country today has about 500,000 
addicts using 25 tons of opium annually. In 11 northern 
highland provinces alone, opium addicts number 130,000. A survey 
of the ages of addicts conducted by the detoxification center of 
Cao Bang Province shows that of 14,813 addicts, those in the 
9-16 age group account for 13 percent; the 17-30 age group, 47 
percent; 31-45, 26 percent; and 46-80, 14 percent. 
  The majority of drug addicts in our country smoke opium. In 
Quang Nam-Da Nang and Ho Chi Minh City, there are some heroin 
addicts. Drug addiction prevails in the male population, with 
females accounting for only 1.92-8.33 percent. Most drug addicts 
have level I and level II educational backgrounds, with those in 
the well-to-do and rich group accounting for 47-80 percent and 
poor people 20-30 percent of all cases. 
  At present, narcotics are produced on an ever-increasing 
scale. Except for a small quantity of them being legally 
produced, their trade is illegal. In the world today, many 
regions, such as a number of Latin American countries and 
Bolivia, Peru, and Colombia, or Southeast Asia such as the 
border area between Thailand, Laos, and Burma, are considered 
major drug centers. Some countries like Turkey and Iran openly 
grow poppy. In Vietnam, according to reports, from October to 
December 1992, in 9 northern provinces (Lao Cai, Ha Giang, Son 
La, Lai Chau, Yen Bai, Cao Bang, Nghe An, Thanh Hoa, and Hoa 
Binh) 41 districts raised poppy in a total area of 12,925 
hectares. [passage omitted] 
  In Vietnam, opium smoking, intravenous use of drugs, and 
smuggling of narcotics are increasing. This is a source of 
concern and worries for society as a whole. On 29 January 1993, 
the government issued Resolution 06/CP "On Strengthening 
Leadership Over Prevention and Control of Narcotics." This 
resolution clearly asserts that "It is necessary to firmly fight 
this ill by taking various propaganda, campaigning, educational, 
economic, administrative-handling, and criminal-law measures." 

