Language: <F P=105> Greek </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd by </F>
correspondent Vironas Karidhis in London; date not given] 
  [Excerpts] [Karidhis] What is the purpose of your visit to 
Athens? 
  [Hurd] It is my first opportunity to meet Foreign Minister 
Karolos Papoulias and other Greek Government officials since 
Greece took over the European Union [EU] Presidency. We will 
discuss several issues, such as Cyprus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and 
the strengthening of relations with the countries of East and 
Central Europe. Expanding the EU to the East is a important aim 
of the Greek Presidency. 
  [Karidhis] What does Britain expect from the Greek 
Presidency? 
  [Hurd] Generally, we expect the Greek Government to 
implement 
the program it announced. The EU enlargement negotiations, 
which are at a critical stage, must be concluded. And the 
economy must continue to be discussed. Everyone in Europe is 
concerned with unemployment. We are also very concerned with 
the Yugoslav issue. EU countries have an important role to play 
in the former Yugoslavia. We are offering assistance, providing 
troops, and contributing to the peace process. The Greek 
Presidency has set out some goals for each of these sectors. We 
would like to contribute so that these goals are implemented. 
[passage omitted] 
  [Karidhis] Following the implementation of the Greek 
embargo, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM] is facing 
serious economic problems. In Athens, all the political parties 
represented in the Chamber of Deputies except the Greek 
Communist Party approve of the economic measures adopted by 
Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou against Skopje [FYROM]. The 
Greek decision surprised Brussels and greatly annoyed Greece's 
Community partners. What is the British Government's position 
on this issue? 
  [Hurd] We share the views of our EU partners. The problem 
must be settled by negotiations under UN auspices. The 
negotiations that have been suspended must resume. The Greek 
measures, which cause serious problems to a small, weak country, 
contribute to instability in the Balkans. Stability in Skopje 
is in Greece and the EU partners' interest. 
<H5>  Serious Problems </H5>
  [Karidhis] Minister, do you believe the Greek action 
violates 
international law (the UN Charter, Treaty of Rome, and 
Maastricht Treaty)? 
  [Hurd] I am not a judge expressing a legal opinion but I am 
not so much interested in the legality of the decision as in 
whether the measures can be considered wise. 
  We understand the Greek reservations. The Greek side has 
clearly expressed its fears. We believe though that the problem 
must be solved through direct talks. I do not believe it is 
reasonable to cause problems, what are probably serious 
problems, for a small country that is already in a difficult 
position because of the situation in the former Yugoslavia. 
This is our position, a position that I believe is shared by 
all of Greece's Community partners. And it must be considered 
seriously, especially now that Greece holds the EU Presidency. 
This position must be understood and not considered as hostile 
toward Greece. 
  [Karidhis] Other than the name issue, Skopje does not appear 
willing to make concessions on basic issues (the flag and the 
Constitution). I recall that Britain--an EU member--decided to 
impose an embargo on Argentina during the war in the Falkland 
islands. 
  [Hurd] We took measures against Argentina not because it 
pursued the Falkland islands, but because Argentine forces 
attacked and occupied the islands. It is a different case. 
Dialogue with Skopje must continue. Greece may understand our 
views following the EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels 
early this week. 
  Greece is a warm supporter of the European Union, it holds 
the Presidency, and I hope that the doors that have closed 
regarding Skopje will reopen. We understand the Greek concerns 
but the problem will only be solved through negotiations. 
  [Karidhis] Let us move to another issue. You said you will 
discuss the Cyprus issue in Athens. Last October, you urged 
Cypriot President Glavkos Kliridhis and Turkish Cypriot leader 
Rauf Denktas to make new efforts to resolve the differences 
between the two communities. In your opinion, what are the 
prospects for a settlement? 
  [Hurd] Some activity has been noted since then, especially 
in 
the talks on confidence-building measures [CBMs] under Joe 
Clark, the UN secretary general's special representative in 
Cyprus. Athens and London agree that Cyprus must remain united. 
We also agree that the status quo cannot continue. Both 
countries believe there are two communities in Cyprus with equal 
rights. I hope there is no disagreement between us on CBMs, 
which I considered a good start. I believe the three guarantor 
powers--Turkey, Britain, and Greece--are obliged to make every 
possible effort so that there is an agreement first on CBMs and 
then a general settlement of the problem. 
  [Karidhis] It seems there are basic differences between the 
two sides on CBMs. 
  [Hurd] I do not believe the differences are basic. There are 
differences but they are not differences of principle. I 
believe Kliridhis can reach an agreement with Denktas on the 
measures and then continue with the dialogue. I believe the 
problem will worsen if the two sides do not exploit this 
opportunity now. When I was in Cyprus in October, I realized 
there was a tendency toward intransigence on the part of the 
leadership and within the parties and among the public. If the 
CBM's are not accepted, the problem will continue, thus 
perpetuating an unfair situation, one that carries the threat of 
instability. [passage omitted] 
  [Karidhis] Minister, how do you see the future of 
Greek-British relations? 
  [Hurd] We are linked with traditional ties of friendship. We 
do not always agree 100 percent but we are very close friends. 
We speak to each other honestly. In the next few months I will 
visit Greece three times. My first visit will begin next week. 
Afterward, I will participate in the EU foreign ministers 
meeting in northern Greece, then in the EU summit in Corfu. I 
am looking forward to these visits, not because it is pleasant 
to visit Greece in the spring and summer, but because I will 
have the opportunity for close talks. I believe this has always 
been one of the characteristics of the friendship between the 
two countries. 

