Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by V. V. Alaverdov, Yu. N. Koptev, V. I. </F>
Lukyashchenko, V. P. Senkevich, V. F. Utkin, Russian Space 
Agency, Central Scientific Research Institute of Machine 
Building: "Russia in Space: This Decade"] 
  [Text] 
<H5>  Space Exploration in the World and in Our Country </H5>
  The twentieth century brought many extraordinary events, and 
one of the greatest events was mankind's going beyond the bounds 
of Earth. Time will pass, and much will be forgotten, but the 
first manned flights into space will always be remembered. 
  In an unusually short period of time, space exploration has 
become an area of concentration of the latest achievements of 
mankind, the apex of scientific-technical progress, and a 
powerful practical means for solving the most varied of 
problems, problems that are often of a global scale. Now the 
space program is making a very real contribution to the economy 
and culture, and it is playing an essential role in securing the 
safety of the state, in disseminating information to society, in 
monitoring the environment, and in solving vitally important 
social problems. 
  In the first decade of the space age, only the USSR and the 
United States had a space potential of their own that made it 
possible to effect the entire cycle from development and launch 
of space vehicles to the practical use of results; now 17 
countries are launching their own satellites, and, by 1995, that 
number is expected to grow to 20-25. In all, though, more than 
130 countries participate in space activity either directly or 
indirectly. 
  Our space program right now is undergoing profound reform, 
as 
is the entire economy of the country. The reform of the space 
sector entails primarily the development of a new concept and a 
long-term policy and program for Russia's space activity, plus 
the realization of new economic relations, a defense doctrine, 
and the interests of domestic and foreign consumers, including 
the states of the CIS. In the process, it is vitally important 
that the space- related scientific-technical and intellectual 
potential that has been created be preserved and be used 
effectively. Legislation regulating space activity also needs to 
be enacted. 
  The year 1992 was a difficult year for our space program. 
Because of the sharp drop in orders for space hardware, 
space-industry enterprises and organizations found themselves in 
a very difficult financial position, and space research became 
unprofitable. The reorientation and shutdown of specialized 
plants for space hardware got under way. The ties that were in 
place are still being severed to this day, and the danger of 
losing state-of-the-art technologies and a substantial number of 
highly skilled specialists has not disappeared. All that, plus 
the hundredfold rise in prices for rocket fuel, electronics, 
metals, and energy carriers, is leading to the curtailment of 
space activity in our country. In addition, the scaling down of 
the armed forces in Russia has resulted in a problem with the 
personnel who used to support the functioning and maintenance of 
the ground-based infrastructure used in the civilian space 
programs. 
  With the existence of those acute conditions, the government 
and the Supreme Soviet of Russia have made decisions that are 
important to the space program. In the law on the budget system 
of the Russian Federation for 1992 and 1993, spending for the 
State Space Program was given a separate line for the first time 
ever, and the average wage in the space industry is to increase 
in 1993 to the average level for workers of all of Russian 
industry. 
  Special agencies for the state management of space activity 
have been formed in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and 
Uzbekistan for the purpose of setting up cooperation and 
interaction among the space organizations of the countries of 
the CIS. A legal basis is being created for effecting joint 
space activity in the CIS countries that is vigorous, mutually 
beneficial, and equitable. Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, 
Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenia, Uzbekistan, and Ukraine 
have all expressed a desire to participate in cooperative 
interstate space activity. 
  Finally, the publication of a new concept of state space 
activity serves as an important landmark in the development of 
our space program. 
  In 1992, the Russian Space Agency [RKA] and the Russian 
Ministry of Defense -- along with the Russian Academy of 
Sciences and the environmental, communications, health care, 
science, and transportation ministries, as well as other 
concerned departments -- created the State Space Program 
for the Period up to the Year 2000, which defines the chief 
goals and most important objectives of the space activity of our 
country. In it, priority is given to projects that facilitate 
the growth of the space program, introduce leading technologies, 
and help to solve the most important socioeconomic problems of 
Russia. The program aims at producing a practical return in such 
vitally important areas as information transfer, power 
engineering, ecology, and raw-material resources. It also takes 
into consideration the country's international obligations. 
  The first steps in this direction have already been taken. 
Among the new consumers of space products and services are the 
Central Bank of Russia, other banks of Russia, and various 
commercial structures. With the help of Russian commercial 
organizations, more than 20 space projects involving 
communications and telecommunications are already under 
development. Among the clients for those space projects are such 
large organizations as the Informkosmos Association, the 
Energiyamarafon Association, the international 
innovations-related joint venture Koskon, and the joint-stock 
companies Global Information Systems, Kuryer [Courier], Gazkom, 
Sokol, Koss, and Ural-Kosmos. Today, Russian businessmen are 
already capable of carrying out such complex projects as the 
1992 space-vehicle flight called Europe-America 500. 
  The program calls for considerable money to be spent for 
applied space operations, military activity, and science-related 
space research. Let us examine in more detail which of those 
projects have received the go-ahead and how the face of our 
country's space program will look by the end of this decade. 
<H5>  Space Communications, Television, and Relay of Information </H5>
  At present, more than 30 communications satellites, as well 
as 50 main ground stations and 7,500 auxiliary ground stations 
for space communications, are in continuous operation in Russia 
for the direct exchange of international television programs. 
Nationwide city-to-city communications, as well as high-quality 
international communications, have been set up across the 
entirety of the CIS. In addition, our country is leasing 
satellite-based communications and television channels to a 
number of foreign countries. 
  In the near future, plans call for the stage-by-stage 
organization of communications via satellite with mobile 
facilities -- airplanes, ships, and automobiles -- and the 
offering of the services of satellite-based electronic mail and 
vehicle-to-vehicle exchange. All of Russia and the CIS will be 
covered by multiprogram television broadcasting. Plans also call 
for considerable expansion of the telephone channels for 
stationary users (so-called fixed communications). 
  The currently existing system for such communications, 
Potok-SV, uses Gorizont satellites placed at 10 points in 
geostationary orbit and the ground stations Azimut, Orbita, 
Zevs, Nauka, and Pikhta. In addition to providing 2,500 
telephone channels, it feeds the first television program to the 
Moskva network of stations and 3-4 channels of mobile 
communications. Unfortunately, because the orbital inclination 
cannot be corrected, the Gorizont satellites, by the end of the 
third year of their operation, shift 2ë in latitude, which 
exceeds the geostationary-satellite position norms allowed by 
the International Telecommunications Union, and they must be 
taken off line immediately. 
  Plans call for the development and building by 1995 of an 
upgraded Ekspress satellite operating in the range of 4/6 GHz, 
with a traffic capacity that is 1.5- to twofold greater and a 
more advanced system for control and correction of orbit (the 
program will be implemented by the Russian Space Agency, the 
Russian Ministry of Communications, and commercial structures). 
Those satellites will gradually replace the Gorizont vehicles 
and will occupy three additional backup points in stationary 
orbit. Also expected is the creation, by 1997, on the basis of 
that same equipment, of the Ekspress-M satellite, which operates 
in the 11-14 GHz range, with a traffic capacity four- to 
fivefold greater than that of the Gorizont satellite. The 
implementation of that program will reduce the needs for 
channels of fixed and nationwide communications by fivefold. 
  For setting up mobile communications (primarily, in the 
interests of the merchant marine), one channel of the Gorizont 
satellite relay is now used, which satisfies only 10 percent of 
the needs for such communications. The Program calls for the 
creation of a separate communications system, Marafon, on the 
basis of the geostationary Arkos satellites and the highly 
elliptical-orbit Mayak satellites. The work will be done in the 
context of conversion with, by and large, commercial-structure 
money and the use of well-developed designs. In addition to the 
highly elliptical-orbit satellites, a system of communications 
and electronic mail, Gonets, is being developed to set up mobile 
communications in the 1.5/1.6 GHz and 0.2/0.4 GHz ranges; also 
under development is the Koskom system, which makes it possible 
to use middle-orbit satellites to provide direct access to 
satellite communications channels. 
  The Ukrainian AssoUniti Association for High-Level 
Technologies is developing a project for a system of personal 
communications, Ariadna. The RKA is coordinating that work and 
the support of efficient use of space-infrastructure hardware 
and facilities and the allocated radio-engineering resources. 
  At present, satellite television broadcasting is provided to 
Russia and the other countries of the CIS by the Ekran system, 
which is based on two Ekran-M1 spacecraft (in the 0.7 GHz range, 
the signal goes to a network of simplified receiving stations), 
as well as by the Potok-SV system, which is based on several 
Gorizont satellites (the signal is transmitted in the 4 GHz 
range to a network of Moskva and Orbita stations). Plans call 
for the creation of the Gals satellites for the transfer of 
satellite-based television broadcasting in the 12 GHz range, 
which has been allocated by the world community for those 
purposes; after Gals will come Gals-R and Gelikon, with the 
number of TV channels increased to seven from three. 
  The implementation of the above-enumerated projects will 
make 
it possible to solve almost completely the problem of setting up 
multiprogram zonal television broadcasting for the countries of 
the CIS and to provide regional television broadcasting in 
ethnic languages. 
  The programs involving space-based television broadcasting 
will be funded by the Russian Ministry of Communications, the 
RKA, the Ostankino TV and radio company, and commercial 
structures, with proportionate participation by the CIS states. 
<H5>  Space Systems for Remote Sensing </H5>
  The hardware projects in this area that are called for by 
the 
Program could become the basis for an integrated domestic system 
for global observation of the environment, natural resource use, 
and city planning. Unmanned space vehicles in systems of remote 
sensing and space-based monitoring are already being used to 
compile thematic natural-resource maps and to assess 
hydrological reserves, land conditions, and ice conditions; to 
perform ecological monitoring of the Earth's surface and 
atmosphere; to identify areas of the World Ocean that are 
abundant with fish; and to do much more. Those kinds of 
information are very promising in commercial terms, too. 
  For the successful conduct of operations in cartography and 
in studies of natural resources and the environment -- to 
include requests made by foreign consumers -- use of the 
Resurs-F1 and Resurs-F2 photographic complexes will continue, as 
will conversion of the Oblik military system to meet 
national-economy needs. After the Nika-Kuban complex has been 
built, the effectiveness of photo observation will be raised, 
with the number of launches cut two- to threefold. 
  Day-to-day observations of land and sea for purposes of 
pinpointing pollution sources, monitoring ice conditions, and 
identifying natural features will be provided by the 
experimental use of the Resurs-01 and Okean-01 complexes. For 
purposes of expanding the range of solvable problems and raising 
the quality of observations, the Okean-0 complex for daily 
observation of the ocean has been developed and is being built; 
Okean-0 is now part of the Ukrainian space program. Completion 
of the building, however, requires that organizational, 
economic, and technical problems associated with the interaction 
of the space programs of the CIS countries be solved. Some of 
the tasks facing that complex could be performed with the gear 
of the Almaz-1 complex, which is capable of performing daily 
high-definition, all-weather observation of the Earth's surface. 
It has been decided to develop complexes for daily observation 
of land and sea on the basis of competitive projects. The 
development of the Resurs-02 program has been completed, the 
complex having an expanded set of onboard gear that enables 
daily land observation with a resolution of down to 2-5 m 
(resolution now is about 45 m); the Resurs-Spektr project has 
also been completed. The Priroda module for the orbital station 
Mir is being built, as are a number of vehicles that are in the 
conversion program and are intended for solution of peacetime 
problems. 
<H5>  Space-Based Meteorology and Environmental Monitoring </H5>
  The State Space Program of Russia calls for completion of 
the 
building of the Planeta two-tiered weather-observation system, 
which is being developed on the basis of the Meteor-3 space 
vehicle and the Electro geostationary weather satellite. The 
work to improve them will continue. Existing and future 
series-produced and experimental satellites such as Meteor, 
Elektro, Prognoz, and Oko, which will carry equipment for direct 
and remote measurements of various parameters of the near-Earth 
environment, are expected to be used to regulate the monitoring 
of heliogeophysical parameters and the state of near-Earth 
space. Some of the measurements will be made with equipment 
launched into space in the context of conversion programs. 
Information will be collected, processed, and disseminated by 
the geophysical services of Roskomgidromet. The successful 
implementation of the outlined program will improve the 
efficiency of the use of the Northern Sea Route, reduce spending 
on the geological study of territories and the inventory of 
agricultural and farm areas, and make it possible to predict 
harvests in any region of Russia and the bioproductivity of 
commercial regions of the ocean and monitor dangerous 
anthropogenic effects on the living environment. 
<H5>  Space-Based Navigation and Geodesy </H5>
  Space vehicles that are continuously in the same orbits can 
provide tens of thousands of ground-based consumers with 
navigational and geodesic information. Now more than 4,500 ships 
are equipped with satellite navigation gear that enables them to 
ascertain their position within 100 m or less. That reduces 
transportation expenses and increases the safety of travel. From 
space, highly accurate measurements are made of certain 
movements of the Earth's crust that have extraordinary 
significance in the prediction of earthquakes. The international 
Cospas-Sarsat system ascertains the position of ships, aircraft, 
and expeditions that are in distress. It has already helped 
rescue more than 2,500 people. In the near future, satellite 
navigation systems will service mobile civilian users with a 
high degree of precision and promptness. 
  Up to the year 2000, plans call for the use of the 
dual-purpose space-based navigational-geodesic Glonass complex, 
which is already deployed in orbit, to provide navigational 
support of national- economy users and to perform geodesic 
measurements. When the number of satellites of that system 
reaches the planned level (36), the system will provide a 
continuous global "navigation field" of the required accuracy 
(no less than 100 m for navigation and 15-20 m for geodesy). At 
the same time, also in use will be the military navigation 
system Tsikada, which is based on the low-orbit Nadezhda 
vehicles, which are being upgraded and, in addition to serving 
the needs of navigation and relaying distress signals (Cospas 
system), will be used for collecting and relaying auxiliary 
dispatcher information of the Ministry of the Navy of the 
Russian Federation (the Kurs system). 
  Control of transportation systems of a higher class (river 
vessels, railways, and auto transport) will be done both by a 
system of personal communications (Gonets, Koskon, and Ariadna 
satellites) and through the use of high-orbit 
mobile-communications satellites (the Marafon system) in 
combination with a ground-based infrastructure that includes a 
network of reference navigation- communication stations. 
  Work will continue until the end of the current decade to 
achieve metric and submetric accuracies in space-based 
navigational and geodesic systems. That, in turn, will make it 
possible to solve a multitude of new national-economy and 
technical problems. It is entirely possible that the economic 
impact of that will enable the achievement of cost recovery for 
coordinate-metric complexes. 
  All that work will be a part of Russia's Standardized 
Program 
for Coordinate-Time Support. 
<H5>  Military Objectives </H5>
  In the defense area, space hardware will, as before, help to 
effectively monitor adherence to international agreements, which 
will make it possible to achieve a standardized information 
space for all combat arms, and it will occupy a special place in 
navigation, geodesy, and other areas of support for the armed 
forces. Worldwide experience shows that, without space-based 
systems, it is difficult to count on a high level of 
effectiveness of the modern army. As before, an immense 
contribution to the support of the space activity of our country 
will be made by the military-space forces of the Russian 
Ministry of Defense. They will perform most of the work at the 
space launch facilities; a number of dual-purpose space systems 
(i.e., used both for military and for national-economy 
objectives) will be used as the ground tracking complex. 
<H5>  Science-Related Space Research </H5>
  This type of space activity enriches us with discoveries and 
new fundamental knowledge. In earlier years, we gained important 
data on near-Earth space, on the Moon and the planets, and on 
the processes that occur in the atmosphere of the Earth and the 
Sun. Much has changed in our notions of the world around us and 
about the origin and evolution of the universe. 
  It would be hard to overemphasize the significance that 
astrophysical and radiophysical research from space holds for 
the solution of many fundamental problems of modern science. 
Instead of just the two small "windows" in the optical and radio 
ranges accessible to ground-based observation, science now has 
an opportunity to conduct research across the entire spectrum. 
The current program for the creation of new science-related 
space hardware is aimed at obtaining fundamental results in 
astrophysics, planetology, geophysics, and the study of the Sun 
and solar- terrestrial relationships. The last area has been 
given priority, because the results obtained will make it 
possible to effectively solve a number of applied problems 
involving the physics of the ionosphere and the biosphere of the 
Earth. Such projects will include Interbol, Solnechnyy zond 
[Solar Probe], and Regata [Regatta]. They will be performed with 
spacecraft of the AUOS family of satellites (developed by NPO 
Yuzhnoye, in Ukraine), and some unusually interesting science 
programs have been outlined for them. The Solar Probe, for 
example, which will execute a flyby of the Sun at the closest 
possible distance from the standpoint of ballistics, will 
provide us with unique information about the Sun and the 
near-Sun environment and will perform gravitational experiments. 
  Astrophysical research is to be done from aboard the 
Prognoz-M2 vehicle (in the Relikt-2 project) and the Spektr and 
Nika-3 vehicles (in experiments involving a study of cosmic 
rays). The program for the further study of the planets includes 
the creation in 1994-1996 of the Mars-94/96 and Mars-Aster space 
vehicles for studying the Red Planet and asteroids from 
Martian-satellite orbit and with landers. The next stage is 
expected to deliver Martian soil samples back to Earth. 
  A program of biomedical research will be performed with the 
Bion and Nika-B space vehicles, as well as from aboard manned 
complexes. Much work will be done on the basis of international 
cooperation. 
<H5>  Manned Flights and Launch Hardware </H5>
  It is important to note that the Program stipulates the 
creation of ecologically clean launch systems. In the period up 
to the year 2000, the Proton and Soyuz launch vehicles will be 
upgraded. A competition is expected to be conducted very soon 
for the creation of the mid-class Angara launcher, a 
standardized series of Dvina upper stages, and small Neva 
launchers. Work will get under way for the creation of a more 
advanced heavy launch-vehicle, the Energiya-M, and the 
development of reusable rocket and aerospace transportation 
systems (including commercial systems). Particular attention 
will be devoted to the efficient use of the Russian launch 
facilities Plesetsk and Kapustin Yar. As before, work will be 
done that involves servicing and expanding the capabilities of 
the Baykonur launch facility (in Kazakhstan). 
  A special place in science-related and applied space 
research 
is held by manned missions. Although unmanned vehicles will, as 
before, be regarded as the main means of studying and using 
space, the Program calls for maintaining Russia's leadership in 
long-duration manned missions. 
  Our orbital stations have been operating successfully in 
near-Earth orbit for many years. They have been a base for the 
study of natural resources and mapping of the Earth; study of 
the atmosphere; and study of physical phenomena and processes 
that occur in space, astronomical observations, and biomedical 
research. New onboard systems and instruments have been worked 
out, experiments have been performed, and industrial operations 
have been conducted involving space technology and materials 
science. Essentially, the stations have been integrated science 
laboratories in which man's participation has expanded 
considerably the capabilities for conducting research. 
  In 1993-1995, the Program is to continue the operation of 
the 
Mir station, dock two modules to it, and raise its performance 
specifications to the level planned in its development. That 
will make it possible to use the station's service life in full, 
thereby getting maximum return. In 1996-2000, the operation of 
the Mir-2 station, with a crew of up to nine people, may get 
under way; the Mir-2 is being developed right now by NPO 
Energiya on the basis of the design experience garnered in the 
construction and operation of the base unit of the Mir station. 
Mir-2 will be lofted into an orbit with an inclination of 
65ë (Mir has an inclination of 51.6ë), which will expand 
considerably the possibilities for solving resources-management 
and ecological problems. Mir-2 will be made up of fundamentally 
new modules, including a biological module, an engineering 
module, and an environmental module. The Soyuz-TM transport and 
the Progress-M cargo resupply craft will be used for the time 
being in the first stage to provide transportation- and 
maintenance-related service. 
<H5>  International Space Activity </H5>
  Ever increasing significance in the field of space activity 
is attaching to the integration of the efforts of many 
countries. Such integration enables the most efficient and 
economically beneficial performance of the most complex, 
expensive, large-scale space programs. At present, Russia is 
successfully collaborating with 18 countries in space activity, 
developing and implementing a variety of projects for various 
purposes. For example, in the context of an agreement between 
Russia and the United States, the flight of a Russian cosmonaut 
aboard the Shuttle is slated for October of this year; and in 
1994, an American astronaut will fly aboard the Mir orbital 
complex. Between now and the year 2000, an additional four 
French citizens will visit the Mir stations, as will astronauts 
from the European Space Agency. 
  Still in the study stage is the project involving the use of 
the Soyuz spacecraft as a rescue craft for the International 
Space Station Freedom. 
  The Program calls for forms of external space activity such 
as the launch of foreign satellites, the leasing of space 
hardware, the tracking support of foreign satellites, the 
exchange of space-derived data, and the provision to foreign 
parties of the opportunity to receive those data from our space 
vehicles. Promising space hardware will be developed, 
manufactured, and perfected in the context of joint projects or 
individual contracts, and a mutually beneficial exchange of 
space technologies will be effected. Joint space-based programs 
are slated in the area of scientific research involving 
near-Earth space, the Sun, and the planets; in the creation of 
space-based production of materials, semiconductors, and 
biopreparations. All that will be of considerable assistance to 
our space program in this time of limited funding. 
  Of exceptional importance to Russia's space program is the 
high- priority area of systems-related, basic, and applied 
scientific research involving the creation of an advanced 
scientific-technical and engineering stock of available 
research. For the first time ever, the funding has been 
increased substantially for scientific research operations in 
that area, funding that now stands at about 10 percent of the 
total amount allocated by the budget for the development of the 
space program. 
  Carrying out Russia's new space policy and implementing the 
State Space Program will enable our country, which built the 
road into space, to maintain its status as a leading space power 
and use the space program to renew Russia and make it flourish. 
  COPYRIGHT: "Nauka" "Zemlya i Vselennaya," 1993 

