BFN 

  [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 29 Apr (AFP) -- Gustavo de 
Greiff, Colombian prosecutor general, has stated in a letter 
sent to Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin that the Colombian 
Government should protest to his U.S. counterpart for meddling 
in his justice decisions. Thus, de Greiff has responded to a 
note by the U.S. Government protesting several of his actions, 
which are considered too lenient regarding the drug-trafficking 
issue. "Personally or officially, I find a government's attempts 
to influence in any way the sovereign decisions that should be 
made by Colombian judicial officials as unacceptable," the 
prosecutor general said in the letter to the Foreign Ministry. 
  The Colombian Government is studying a reply to the U.S. 
protest note, which, according to the Foreign Ministry, will 
take some time, given the legal complexity of the issue. 
  The Colombian prosecutor general has been the target of an 
avalanche of criticism this past month stemming from his 
statements that the best way to combat drug trafficking would be 
to legalize drugs. 
  Subsequently, he had contacted a U.S. judge who is 
processing 
Dandenys Munoz (a Medellin cartel member suspected of planting a 
bomb in a commercial plane in 1989 causing 107 victims) saying 
he has no evidence against Munoz. U.S. authorities say de Greiff 
has requested, on nine occasions, to meet with another member of 
the cartel, Carlos Alzate, detained in a Santa Fe de Bogota 
jail. The prosecutor general has denied making such a request. 

