BFN 

  [Text] The DPRK (North Korea) is reportedly preparing to 
test-fire a ballistic missile. Commenting on timing of the test, 
a senior official in the Defense Agency [DA] has said, "Moves by 
North Korean Navy ships near a sea area where the ballistic 
missile is expected to hit holds the key to determining the 
timing of its test-firing." The same official noted the DA will 
do everything it can to collect information on North Korea's 
test on the basis of information provided by the U.S. Forces in 
Japan. 
  The same DA senior official also said: "If North Korea is to 
test-fire the ballistic missile not as a simple bluff, but for a 
purely technical experiment, it is supposed to keep a variety of 
information, such as electronics information and coded signals, 
from being collected by other nations. We will have to position 
our ships near the sea area where the ballistic missile is 
expected to hit." 
  North Korea test-fired "Nodong-1" missile on 29 May 1933. 
The 
DA confirmed that at the time North Korean Navy ships were 
positioned near an area in the Sea of Japan where the missile 
hit to collect information. With regard to the question of 
determining when North Korea will test-fire the missile, the DA 
has said: "North Korea is now suffering from a fuel shortage and 
the country is expected to position its Navy ships only a day or 
two prior to the test-firing. Once North Korean Navy ships begin 
moving out in the Sea of Japan, we can conclude that North Korea 
will soon test-fire the missile." The DA is now collecting 
information and has put itself on a state of alert while 
analyzing the information provided by the U.S. Forces in Japan. 

