BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, May 25, SPA -- Custodian of the two holy 
mosques, King Fahd Bin-'Abd-al-'Aziz has sent a message to the 
Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata. The message was handed 
over by Hisham Nazir, the Saudi minister of petroleum and 
mineral resources, who was received by the prime minister at the 
parliament headquarters here on Tuesday. 
  Following the meeting, Nazir told the SPA that he also 
conveyed to Mr Hata the interest of King Fahd for promotion of 
the bilateral relations between the two countries in various 
fields. 
  Nazir also expressed satisfaction over the four-decade 
friendship ties between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Japan as 
the Kingdom is regarded as the biggest oil exporter to Japan 
which imports about 25 percent of its oil needs from the kingdom 
which is, on turn, regarded among the biggest importers of the 
Japanese products. 
  Minister Nazir said the kingdom is looking forwards for 
setting up more economic joint ventures with Japanese partners 
including a joint petroleum project for refining and 
distribution of the Saudi Aramco's oil products in Japan's 
markets. 
  He said the Japanese prime minister and other concerned 
ministers with which he met, have expressed support for the 
establishment of the joint venture which will be run by the 
Saudi Aramco and Japanese oil companies inside Japan. 
  Nazir also met on Tuesday with the Minister of Foreign Trade 
and Industry Eijiro Hata and the meeting was attended by the 
Saudi Ambassador to Japan Fawzi Shobokshi, the chairman of Saudi 
Aramco 'Ali al-Na'imi and members of the delegation accompanying 
him. 

