Language: <F P=105> Japanese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Unattributed article: "Rankings of 200 Leading Political </F>
Contributors and Emergency Questionnaire Survey"] 
  [Text] As the general contractor scandals have 
illustrated, adhesion between the corporate and political worlds 
has been subject to renewed criticism, and attention is focused 
on the status of corporate contributions. One wonders whether 
corporate contributions are beneficial or detrimental... Amidst 
the announcement by Keidanren [Federation of Economic 
Organizations] that it will discontinue the collection and 
management of political contributions, corporations and industry 
display mass confusion in the stance they should assume in 
relation to the political world. 
<H3>  Emergency Questionnaire Survey Reveals Lack of Principles on 
Political Contributions </H3>
  On 13 October, the Federation of Electric Power Companies 
decided to discontinue publication of advertisements in Liberal 
Democratic Party [LDP] organs. The reason for the decision was 
based on criticism that the advertising fees of as much as 36 
million yen per issue were tantamount to political contributions. 
  Those fees equal that charged for one-page advertisements in 
national newspapers, and criticism that they are 
disproportionate even from the standpoint of the potential 
stimulus on consumer interest are probably in order. 
  Aside from such advertisements, the flow of funds to the 
political world takes the form of purchases of tickets to 
parties and offers of office space which are almost identical to 
political contributions. Even if illegal contributions are not 
germane to this discussion, the flow of funds from corporations 
to politicians assumes a variety of forms and large sums. 
  In compiling this special feature article, this magazine 
conducted a questionnaire survey of about 80 leading 
corporations. However, the response rate was a low 27 percent. 
Since the survey covered a delicate subject, many firms 
indicated they could not respond. 
  A special feature reflected in the results of the survey was 
that most of the firms or 50 percent indicated that they made 
contributions because, "Keidanren or an industry organization 
requested contributions." In response to the question about 
method of contribution, the highest percentage, 36.4 percent, 
stated that they were made "through industry organizations," 
indicating they were significantly influenced by industry 
trends. You might consider this the manifestation of Japanese 
perceptions calling for conformity with patterns established by 
the precedent setter. 
  However, when it came to contributions to political factions 
and individual politicians, 59 percent of the firms responded 
that they were based on "independent judgments of the firms." 
This survey result reveals that individual ties between 
corporations and politicians serve as a basis for making 
decisions on contributions. 
  On Keidanren's discontinuation of collecting and managing 
contributions, 40.9 percent of respondents showed passive 
support as expressed by the words, "cannot be avoided in view of 
public opinion." Only 13.6 percent replied that the "decision 
was logical." The survey results indicate that corporations are 
quite confused by the situation emanating from the decision to 
discontinue the collection and management of political funds. 
  Concerning the government proposal to abolish corporate 
contributions in five years, 40.9 percent "favored" the idea, 
while none "opposed" the idea. Regarding Keidanren's ending its 
intermediary role, the same percentage expressed passive 
support, but they expressed positive "support" of the government 
proposal to abolish contributions. These responses probably 
reflect the situation wherein corporations feel comfortable with 
uniform prohibition against contributions, which spares them the 
need for independent decisions. 
  This phenomenon is clearly revealed in the positions taken 
relative to future contributions. 
  Of the respondents, only 13.6 percent displayed the 
clear-cut 
position that they would "discontinue contributions" to 
political parties as well as factions and individual politicians. 
  Further, 31.8 percent said they would "continue 
contributions 
to political parties based on their independent decisions," 
while 18.2 percent said they would continue such contributions 
to factions and individual politicians. Although 95.5 percent of 
firms surveyed made contributions in the past, the number of 
firms that would continue to do so, when forced to make 
independent decisions, drops significantly. 
  Of special note is that contributions to factions and 
individual politicians which are clearly reflective of corporate 
attitudes would drop to less than one-fifth of previous levels. 
  These survey results probably demonstrate the lack of 
principles in contributions made in the past. 
  And, it is the lack of principles in corporate actions that 
have become the target of public criticism. It appears the 
situation provides a rare opportunity for use of such public 
opinion as a lever in reforming corporate-political 
relationships. 
<H3>  Rankings of Contributions--Banks, General Contractors, and 
Life and Casualty Insurance Companies Are Three Leading 
Contributor Groups </H3>
  We now discuss the size of corporate and organizational 
contributions. A look at contributions made to political funding 
organizations in 1992 reveals that they totaled 9.377 billion 
yen to the LDP's Kokumin Seiji Kyokai, 774 million yen to the 
Seiwa Kyokai of the Democratic Socialist Party [DSP], and 3.56 
million yen to the Japan New Party's support organization. 
  A breakdown reveals that the majority of contributions made 
to the Kokumin Seiji Kyokai was from banks. Banks represented 
the top 14 contributors; contributions by these 14 banks totaled 
1.16 billion yen. Separately, large regional bank contributions 
were topped by the Yokohama Bank with 23.74 million yen and 
followed by Hokuriku Bank with 16.42 million yen. 
  Additionally, the Second Regional Bank Association 
contributed 70 million yen, the Credit Associations of Japan 
contributed 45 million yen, and the Central Association of 
Credit Unions contributed 13 million yen, representing sizable 
organizational contributions and leading to total contributions 
by the banking industry of close to 2 billion yen. 
  The next sequentially significant contributors were trading 
companies and the steel industry. Among trading companies the 
leading five firms of Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Itochu, Sumitomo, and 
Marubeni each contributed 63.85 million yen. The total 
contributed by all trading companies exceeded 500 million yen. 
  In the steel industry, the five leading firms of Nippon 
Steel, NKK, Kawasaki Steel, Kobe Steel, and Sumitomo Metal 
Industries ranked down to 25th place as contributors and 
provided a total of 375 million yen. Additionally, the Japan 
Iron and Steel Federation ranked second in organizational 
contributions, donating a total of 90 million yen, representing 
an industry group making sizable contributions. 
  The Petroleum Association of Japan is the highest ranking 
industry organization contributor (donation of 91 million yen). 
It is followed by the Japan Iron and Steel Federation and Japan 
Automobile Manufacturers Association (each donating 85 million 
yen) and the Japan Petrochemical Industry Association (80.51 
million yen). Of special note is that there is no relationship 
between size of the industry and size of donations. It appears 
that political donations are affected in this area by the degree 
to which government controls influence regulations and 
protective measures. 
  On the other hand, the construction industry leads in 
contributions to the Seiwa Kyokai. The top contributor is 
Shimizu (11.25 million yen), followed by Kajima (11.15 million 
yen), and Obayashi, Taisei Corp., and Takenaka Corp. (each 
donating 11.05 million yen). The fact that corporate donations 
by construction firms monopolize the top of the list probably 
attests to the hope that they will function to soften regional 
opposition movements against redevelopment projects. 
  Among organizational donations, those made by the Tokyo 
Securities Exchange Regular Members Association top the list at 
28.4 million yen. They are followed by the Japanese Dentists 
Political Federation (11 million yen) and by the Japan Iron and 
Steel Federation, Japan Automobile Manufacturers' Association, 
and Japan Chemical Fibers Association (10 million each). 
  In the automobile industry, the Federation of Japan 
Automobile Workers Union supports the DSP, thus influencing the 
respective industry firms into making sizable contributions, 
including 6 million yen by Toyota, 7.3 million by Nissan, 4 
million yen by Honda, 8.2 million yen by Mazda, and 5.6 million 
yen by Mitsubishi Motors. However, it is interesting to note 
that corporate ranking and ranking of donations are not 
consistent. 
  Further, the DSP enjoys a strong base in the Tokai region to 
the extent that it is called the "Aichi DSP," but that region is 
also known for its huge textile industry. This is probably why 
contributions made by the Japan Chemical Fiber Association are 
large. 
  However, compared to contributions made to the Kokumin Seiji 
Kyokai, donations were less than one-half, graphically 
reflecting the positions of the LDP as the ruling party and the 
DSP as a perennial opposition party. 
  Further, the Japan New Party, a new organization, received 
only minimal donations, with House Food Industrial Co. leading 
the list with a donation of 6 million yen. This party can 
probably be considered as having attained extraordinary cost 
performance considering the election of 36 members to Diet seats 
with such minimal funding. 
<H3>  Casualty Insurance--Enjoys Very Subdued Standing in Terms of 
Donations </H3>
  Large contributors in the financial world initially come 
from 
the banking circles. This is especially true in the sense that 
official reports list a large number of leading banks which have 
made contributions in the 80 million yen range. It is truly a 
case where banks symbolize Japanese wealth. Memories are still 
fresh whereby banks became the topic of discussion because they 
were solicited for party donations during the last House of 
Representatives elections. 
  In comparison, the casualty insurance industry played a 
somewhat subdued role. 
  According to the Public Relations Department of the Marine 
and Fire Insurance Association of Japan chaired by Takashi 
Onoda, president of Sumitomo Marine and Fire Insurance Company, 
"The industry has few ties with politicians and there is no 
particular benefit in making contributions." 
  Calculations show that the average donation made by 14 
listed 
companies to the LDP was approximately 20.17 million yen. This 
figure by itself would indicate that donations were not 
necessarily low. 
  However, only the top-ranking four firms on the list donated 
more than the average amount; they were Tokio Marine and Fire at 
the top of the list, followed by Yasuda Fire and Marine, Mitsui 
Marine and Fire, and Sumitomo Marine and Fire. Overall 
impressions are altered considerably when the situation is 
viewed from this perspective. 
  Speaking of the casualty insurance industry, its influence 
within the financial world is weaker than generally thought as 
can be seen in last year's issue of reciprocal operating rights 
between life and casualty insurance industries. Needless to say, 
the priority assigned to the various firms is not determined by 
the monetary value of donations, but according to casualty 
insurance industry sources, "The industry's political influence 
is nonetheless weak." 
  An issue on which the industry is cureently placing foremost 
importance is that concerning tax deductions for insurance 
premiums. 
  In the current tax system, there is a wide variance between 
the treatment of deductions allowed for life insurance and that 
for casualty insurance. 
  Currently, deductions allowed for casualty insurance 
premiums 
are one-tenth of that for life insurance, while deductions are 
applicable to only half as many individuals, but the government 
is being asked to shrink the differences in connection with next 
fiscal year's revisions to the tax system. 
  The previously quoted sources admit to the difficulties 
being 
faced as they say, "We have expressed our desires in connection 
with deductions allowed for insurance premiums, but such 
circumstances pose difficulties for the attainment of our goals." 
  In any event, the future will no doubt see a major change in 
the status of political donations. 
  When that happens, industry itself will face a genuine test 
of its influence. It will be interesting to note whether the 
casualty insurance industry can exercise its influence at that 
time. 
<H3>  Transportation--Next Year Will Call for a Review Including 
the Idea of Zero Donations </H3>
  Let's take a look at the transportation industry. The 
industry is divided primarily into the land, marine, and air 
sectors and policies concerning political donations appear to 
differ for each sector. 
  Let us base our discussion on data contained in government 
reports. Focusing on corporations and organizations that 
officially donated comparatively large sums in excess of 10 
million yen to the LDP through its conduit, the Kokumin Seiji 
Kyokai, during 1992, shows that, in the land sector, all 15 
leading private railway firms donated sums in excess of that 
figure. In this connection, we find that the largest sum of 
about 46.43 million yen was donated by the Kinki Nippon Railway 
and that the smallest sum donated was about 11 million yen by 
the Nishi-Nippon Railroad Company. The 15 firms donated a total 
of about 350 million yen for a per company average of about 
23.37 million yen. Although it can be said that the sums are 
comparatively small compared to banks and steel firms, these 
figures consider only those sums donated by "parent firms"; 
including figures for affiliated companies would obviously make 
the totals higher. You might say a special characteristic of 
these figures is that they do not include any donations from the 
Japan Private Railway Conference chaired by Moritoshi Serizawa, 
chairman of the Keihin Electric Express Railway Company. 
  Railway industry sources have expressed their views on 
political donations by the industry in this manner: "The railway 
industry has concluded that any political donations are made 
strictly as a matter of `social obligation.' We do not 
understand the position taken by other industries, but it would 
be stupid of us to think that we could increase railway usage by 
making donations to politicians and political parties. In the 
Meiji era, it may have been logical to think that we could 
establish new rail routes and expand rail operations through the 
influence of politicians, but the reverse situation prevails 
under current conditions wherein the government looks for 
railways, as `public transportation agencies,' to increase their 
passenger capacities." 
  However, another viewpoint expressed by an unspecified, but 
informed source and which should not be overlooked says, 
"Railway companies can no longer survive solely on the basis of 
revenue earned through rail operations. They are in the process 
of expanding their revenue sources through operations related to 
real estate, distribution, and leisure enterprises. They can 
probably dismiss the value of political donations from a pure 
rail operation perspective, but when viewed from the aspect of 
residential development and leisure facilities projects, it is 
questionable whether they can afford to take the same position." 
  On the other hand, what is the status of the "air" sector? 
The three leading firms of this sector are not on the official 
government list. According to a source at an unspecified airline 
company, the situation in the industry is such that, "The 
airline industry faces a crisis situation. The industry is in no 
position to make political donations." 
  Next, what is the status of political donations by the 
"marine" sector? The marine transportation industry can be 
categorized into the "international marine" sector handled by 
the so-called five leading firms and the "domestic marine" 
sector handled by the domestic marine transportation industry, 
but this discussion will focus on the international marine 
sector. 
  In the case of the international marine transportation 
sector, there is no case in which an individual firm has made an 
independent donation. However, the "Japan Ship Owners' 
Association" industry organization, chaired by Susumu Tenporin, 
president of Mitsui OSK Lines, has contributed 33 million yen to 
the Kokumin Seiji Kyokai. 
  One employee of an unnamed marine shipping company comments, 
"The reason individual firms in our industry do not make 
political donations is that they are restricted by `interest 
subsidy provisions.' The official title of the code is the 
`Emergency Measures Law Concerning Subsidized Interest for Loans 
To Construct Seagoing Vessels.' This system was used from 1979 
through 1982 when seagoing vessels were ordered and built with 
huge outlays of public subsidies. The system is not used today, 
but the logic applied is that `companies that have received 
subsidies from the government cannot afford to make political 
donations.'" 
  Then, there is the question of what reason is used when the 
Japan Ship Owners' Association makes a donation? Sources at the 
association point out that "donations are made to the LDP purely 
for the sake of supporting a political party that promotes 
freedom and free trade." 
  Another source states, "Donations in 1992 rose to 33 million 
yen, but they reflect a one-time increase because a House of 
Councilors election was held that year. For the past several 
years donations have been about 22 million yen, some 10 million 
yen less. 
  The same source continues, "It appears the association is 
moving to consider changes, including a zero donation level, 
based on progress being made on various reforms, including the 
Political Funding Control Law being studied by the government." 
  The above represents a quick review of donations by the 
transportation industry, but it appears the industry as a whole 
shows strong signs of "making changes next year." 
<H3>  Energy Industry--Flustered in a Major Way by Criticism of 
Disproportionate "Advertising Costs" </H3>
  The Federation of Electric Power Companies, composed of nine 
power companies and chaired by Kohei Abe of Chubu Electric Power 
Co., has continued political donations to the LDP in the form of 
"advertising fees" which are facing renewed challenge as a 
practice of a public utility. 
  On 13 October, as Chairman Abe addressed an emergency press 
conference, he said, "We have invited the misunderstanding that 
the advertising fees were political donations," and explained 
that future advertisements would be discontinued, but he avoided 
any clarification of whether the expenditures were "advertising 
fees" or "donations." 
  The recently criticized advertising fees paid to the LDP 
reached the huge sum of 1 billion yen in fiscal year 1992 alone. 
The federation's annual advertising budget totals about 5 
billion yen, so this means that about one-fifth of the amount 
budgeted was being funneled into the LDP. The advertisements 
were printed in three LDP publications: JIYU SHIMPO, RIBURU, and 
GEKKAN JIYU MINSHU. 
  However, those advertising fees are extraordinarily high in 
relation to the limited circulation of these organ publications 
and for this reason criticism was levied that, "The sums 
involved were political donations disguised as advertising fees." 
  Initially, when the federation was criticized, it insisted 
that the fees involved "advertising," saying, "We announced the 
electric power industry's position concerning nuclear power 
generation in the form of an advertisement," but if one 
considers the medium used versus the fees involved, it is only 
logical that they are viewed as political donations. 
  To begin with, there was a reason why an influential basic 
industry such as the electric power industry could not openly 
make political donations. 
  The reason relates to the fact that the industry was faced 
with a consumer "movement to refuse to pay even 1 yen of the 
portion of rate hikes that represented political donations" as a 
reaction to an industry-wide rate hike that went into effect in 
1974 immediately following the first oil shock. 
  At that time, the federation took the situation seriously 
and 
decided that donations by individual firms would be abolished 
and that donations would be limited to those made by individual 
federation officials. 
  It is said that this policy is still followed, but even 
after 
it was decided to abolish donations by individual firms after 
1974 because of the series of scandals, the view persists that 
"donations" were made in a different form. 
  Citing a lack of records, the federation has not made any 
revelations for the period before 1983, but it explains that 
advertising fees paid to the LDP in 1983 totaled 350 million yen 
and rose yearly thereafter until they reached 1 billion yen in 
the last fiscal year. 
  The Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI], 
which is responsible for supervising this area, has said that 
"it is questionable whether sums paid as an industry 
organization responsible for operating public utilities 
enterprises were appropriate." 
  On the other hand, the Japan Gas Association, a public 
utility organization chaired by Hiroshi Watanabe, chairman of 
Tokyo Gas Company, has been questioned on the propriety of its 
advertisements placed with the LDP organs via the Economic 
Publicity Center, an external organization of Keidanren. 
  The Japan Gas Association in the last fiscal year paid 273 
million yen in political party fees and 237 million yen of that 
amount went directly for fees to cover advertisements placed in 
LDP publications such as JIYU SHIMPO. 
  Industry sources have expressed the view, "If the foregoing 
use of funds was prearranged by the gas association, the 
Economic Publicity Center, and the LDP, the situation would pose 
a serious problem. It would be very obvious that an attempt was 
made to camouflage a political donation. However, the views of 
the gas association and the Economic Publicity Center are 
diametrically apart on that point. It appears the two parties do 
not have the freedom to come to an easy agreement." 
  Chairman Watanabe of the gas association views the situation 
seriously, saying, "It is true that there are suspicions that 
the fees constitute political donations. We should take 
corrective action to ensure that misunderstandings are not 
inspired concerning us as public utilities businesses," 
suggesting that such donations will be discontinued. 
  Electric power and gas industries which were recently 
criticized for political donation scandals had once made large 
political donations similar to those of the steel and banking 
industries. However, such donations were supposed to have been 
abolished from the standpoint that they would involve public 
utilities. 
  However, now that it is known that huge sums of funds which 
were virtually donations had been funneled to political parties, 
it is only natural that they are treated as a problem. Moreover, 
the fact that both industries announced the intent to abolish 
such donations as soon as the problem surfaced seems to indicate 
that they do feel a modicum degree of guilt. 
<H3>  Machinery--Ostensibly the Purpose Is To Pay for Party 
Tickets, But What Is the Real Under-the-Table Purpose? </H3>
  The public relations official of the Japan Machine Tools 
Builders Association [JMTBA] which is chaired by Goro Tejima, 
president of Hitachi Seiki Co., appeared as if he could not 
believe the figure quoted to him for political donations by that 
organization, saying, "Do they reach such high figures? Our 
association is not supposed to have that kind of money." 
  Donations made to the Kokumin Seiji Kyokai by JMTBA in 
fiscal 
year 1992 under the provisions of the Political Funds Control 
Law totaled 9.09 million yen. That is probably a large sum for 
JMTBA, which has an annual budget of about 300 billion yen. 
  The JMTBA maintains no program of collecting donations from 
individual firms. 
  However, when a party is held to raise political funds under 
the title of "party in support of Mr. So-and-So," there are 
occasions when they purchase party tickets. 
  Most of those tickets were sold by Diet men who were former 
officials of MITI, which exercised jurisdiction over the machine 
tool builders' industry. 
  Moreover, the public affairs official states that residual 
fiscal yearend funds serve as the principal source of funding 
for such purchases and that, "We do not budget specifically for 
political donations." 
  JMTBA revenues going into its general accounts consist 
primarily of association fees paid by member firms. That fee is 
determined by a formula which is applied against a firm's prior 
fiscal year revenues. That amount is fairly flexible, and as an 
example, since last year was a recessionary one, fees collected 
this year were about two-thirds of that collected last year. 
  It was apparently a case where it was thought that yearend 
availability for political funding could not have been so large 
in government reports for 1992 under the JMTBA system where 
fiscal yearend residuals are used to buy party tickets. This 
accounts for the statement quoted at the beginning of this 
section. 
  The rate of new orders for the machine tool industry 
continues to experience lags. Although the world is faced with 
the collapse of the cold war structure and a new political 
situation on the domestic front, the industry probably truly 
hopes for an early recovery of the economy. 
  On the other hand, the machine tools industry, much like 
industries such as the construction sector, has "money that does 
not appear on the surface." Certain industry sources point to 
the existence of money known as "funds disbursed during election 
campaigns." These are funds that are not reported under the 
Political Funds Control Law and that are funneled through 
confidential channels. 
  Any debate on political reform leads to the argument that 
the 
Political Funds Control Law leaks like a sieve in terms of 
effectiveness, and unless both politicians and corporations are 
determined to conduct themselves honestly, there will be no 
value in revising laws. 
<H3>  Food Industry--Paucity of Donations Reflects Condition of 
Industry </H3>
  A public relations official of a food maker stated, 
"Regulations and advantages of making donations do not prevail 
in the food industry as they do in other industries. That is why 
donations are made purely on an obligatory basis." 
  That statement appears to be correct, viewed from the report 
issued by the Ministry of Finance for 1992. 
  The top donation was made by Kirin Brewery in the amount of 
43.4 million yen, but this was a fairly unique figure. Among 
other high-volume breweries, there was Sapporo Brewery donating 
17.56 million yen and Asahi Brewery donating 17.5 million yen 
which were appropriate levels for those two, but no other food 
makers donated more than 10 million yen as an individual firm. 
  In comparison to the banking industry, where one bank is 
known to have donated over 80 million yen, the food industry as 
a whole barely exceeds the donations of a single bank. 
  As stated at the outset of this section, the first reason is 
that there are few issues relating to the food industry where 
donations can be used to lobby effectively for political action. 
Another reason that can be cited is that food companies are 
comparatively small relative to their widespread name 
recognition. 
  And, as pointed out by one food company president, 
"Activities of food companies in the industrial world were 
limited in the past, leaving it with only a nominal status," 
thus placing them in a position where they could not make 
donations aggressively. 
  Several donations did garner some attention. Among them was 
the donation by SB Foods to Shintaro Ishihara as an individual. 
  About that donation, a public affairs official of the firm 
notes that, "We made the donation because Mr. Ishihara serves as 
a consultant to the "SB Sports Club," a children's cultural 
group that we operate. 
  And, among the few firms donating to the Japan New Party is 
the House Food Industrial Company. 
  Further, although a variety of industry organizations 
represent the food industry, very few are mentioned on the 
official donation lists. They say that the Japan Soy Sauce 
Association has contributed to the LDP, but they do not assume a 
positive stance admitting, "We appear to be making donations 
reluctantly because they persistently approach us for donations, 
but we'd like to discontinue them if at all possible." 
  Among firms that replied to the data-gathering effort, many 
of them expressed a desire to discontinue donations in the 
future. 
<H3>  Precision Tools Industry--Erstwhile Glamour Industry Has 
Faded into the Past </H3>
  The Japan Camera Industry Association [JCIA], chaired by 
Hideo Tajima, chairman of Minolta Camera, made contributions 
totaling 14 million yen in 1992 to the Kokumin Seiji Kyokai and 
the Seiwa Kyokai. 
  Those donations were made collectively by the industry 
organization in response to the desire of industry circles that 
they preferred such an approach over individual donations by the 
respective firms. 
  This is not a case where the JCIA levies donations from the 
respective firms, but one in which firms that wish to do so make 
voluntary donations which are collected for use in making 
consolidated contributions. 
  Since contributions are not mandatory, there are firms that 
make independent donations. 
  The JCIA collects donations from the respective firms based 
on the approximate revenues of each firm. 
  Further, methods for collecting donations and timing are 
determined on the basis of economic conditions and operating 
status of individual firms. 
  This year, because of political changes, including the 
collapse of one-party rule by the LDP and the birth of the 
coalition government, and suspicions cast on covert 
relationships between politicians and business because of the 
general contractor scandals, the JCIA maintains that it is not 
in a position to aggressively pursue prospects for collecting 
and managing donations. 
  Notwithstanding, donations of 14 million yen are not 
necessarily a small amount. 
  As reason for collecting and managing donations in the past, 
the JCIA cites "membership in Keidanren." 
  In other words, this is not a case where donations were 
collected to support a specific political party or candidate, 
but to support the "great cause" of freedom, in accordance with 
the goals of Keidanren. 
  However, as stated previously, since the organization is not 
sure about what it will do in relation to this year's 
contributions, it states about future donations, "We will 
consider each donation on a case-by-case basis, since we cannot 
predict future political situations." 
  As the cold war structure has collapsed and political 
restructuring in the domestic arena is still fluid, this is a 
case where potential beneficiaries of political donations and 
the reasons for donations cannot be clearly established. 
  However, the impact of having reached market saturation 
relative to single-lens reflex cameras and the sharp rise in the 
value of the yen, according to industry sources, have caused a 
"deterioration in market conditions" and the industry is 
probably in no condition to make major donations. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|200 Top Corporate Donors to the Kokumin Seiji Kyokai (LDP) in 1992           | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Rank                     |Name of Firm             |Value of Donation in Yen | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1                        |Sakura Bank              |89,750,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sanwa Bank               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Bank            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Fuji Bank                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsubishi Bank          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7                        |Asahi Bank               |89,625,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Industrial Bank of Japan |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Long-Term Credit Bank of |                         | 
|                         |Japan                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10                       |Tokai Bank               |89,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Bank of Tokyo            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|12                       |Nippon Credit Bank       |89,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|13                       |Daiwa Bank               |88,625,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|14                       |Hokkaido Takukshoku Bank |86,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|15                       |Nippon Steel             |75,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|16                       |Itochu                   |63,850,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Corp.           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Marubeni                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsui &amp; Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsubishi Corp.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|21                       |Kawasaki Steel           |60,240,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|22                       |Nippon Life Insurance Co.|60,209,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|23                       |NKK                      |60,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Kobe Steel               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Metal Industries|                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|26                       |Mitsubishi Heavy Industr-|59,510,000               | 
|                         |ies                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|27                       |Toyota Motor Corp.       |59,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|28                       |Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Ins-|53,681,520               | 
|                         |urance Co.               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|29                       |Tokio Marine &amp; Fire  |53,630,000               | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|30                       |Hitachi                  |50,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|31                       |Sumitomo Life Insurance  |49,232,780               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|32                       |Mitsubishi Electric Corp.|48,010,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|33                       |Toshiba Corp.            |48,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|34                       |NEC                      |47,700,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|35                       |Kinki Nippon Railway Co. |46,430,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|36                       |Nissho Iwai Corp.        |45,440,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|37                       |Sanyo Electric Co.       |45,012,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|38                       |Matsushita Electrical In-|45,000,000               | 
|                         |dustrial Co.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|39                       |Nissan Motor Co.         |43,800,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|40                       |Kirin Brewery Co.        |43,400,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|41                       |Sumitomo Trust &amp; Ban-|41,677,000               | 
|                         |king Co.                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsui Trust &amp; Banki-|                         | 
|                         |ng Co.                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsubishi Trust &amp; B-|                         | 
|                         |anking Corp.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Yasuda Trust &amp; Banki-|                         | 
|                         |ng Co.                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|45                       |Sony Corp.               |38,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|46                       |Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine |37,580,000               | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|47                       |Honda Motor Co.          |37,400,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|48                       |Toyo Trust &amp; Banking |36,831,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|49                       |Fujitsu                  |36,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|50                       |Takeda Chemical Industri-|35,920,000               | 
|                         |es                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|51                       |Meiji Mutual Life Insura-|34,739,800               | 
|                         |nce Co.                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|52                       |Yamanouchi Pharmaceutica-|31,480,000               | 
|                         |l Co.                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|53                       |Mitsubishi Motor Co.     |30,400,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|54                       |Tobu Railway Co.         |30,170,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|55                       |Penta-Ocean Construction |30,082,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|56                       |Sharp Corp.              |30,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|57                       |Chuo Trust &amp; Banking |29,113,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|58                       |Mitsui Marine &amp; Fire |28,740,000               | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|59                       |Nomura Securities Co.    |28,330,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|60                       |Toyo Menka Kaisha        |28,240,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|61                       |Kajima Corp.             |28,066,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|62                       |Seibu Railway Co.        |26,672,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|63                       |Joyo Bank                |26,505,300               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|64                       |Mazda Motor Corp.        |26,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|65                       |Tokyu Corp.              |26,397,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|66                       |Isuzu Motors             |26,200,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Fuji Electric Co.        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|68                       |Hankyu Corp.             |26,170,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|69                       |Sumitomo Marine &amp; Fi-|25,630,000               | 
|                         |re Insurance Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|70                       |Fujita Corp.             |25,302,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|71                       |Sankyo Co.               |25,030,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|72                       |Obayashi Corp.           |25,002,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Shimizu Construction Co. |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|74                       |Taisei Corp.             |24,502,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|75                       |Kawasaki Heavy Industries|24,430,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|76                       |Takenaka Corp.           |24,402,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Hanshin Electric Railway |                         | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|78                       |Aoki Construction Co.    |24,302,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Kumagai Gumi Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|80                       |Asahi Mutual Life Insura-|24,185,370               | 
|                         |nce Co.                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|81                       |Odakyu Electric Railway  |23,900,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|82                       |Bank of Yokohama         |23,745,300               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|83                       |Ishikawajima-Harima Heav-|23,390,000               | 
|                         |y Industries             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|84                       |Keihin Electric Express  |22,672,000               | 
|                         |Railway Co.              |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|85                       |Daiwa Securities Co.     |22,370,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|86                       |Sagami Railway Co.       |22,132,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|87                       |Suzuki Motor Co.         |22,100,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nichimen Corp.           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|89                       |Daito Kogyo Co.          |21,720,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Toyo Construction Co.    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|91                       |Keihan Electric Railway  |21,602,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|92                       |Dai-Ichi Seiyaku Co.     |21,270,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|93                       |Yamaichi Securities Co.  |21,130,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|94                       |Nankai Electric Railway  |20,402,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|95                       |Tsumura &amp; Co.        |20,220,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|96                       |Kubota                   |20,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|97                       |Wakachiku Construction C-|19,746,000               | 
|                         |o.                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|98                       |Nikko Securities Co.     |19,660,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|99                       |Nippon Fire &amp; Marine |19,600,000               | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|100                      |Nippon Trust &amp; Banki-|19,384,000               | 
|                         |ng Co.                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|101                      |Hachijuni Bank           |19,147,600               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|102                      |Mitsui Mutual Life Insur-|19,074,680               | 
|                         |ance Co.                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|103                      |Yasuda Mutual Life Insur-|18,350,200               | 
|                         |ance Co.                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|104                      |Bridgestone Corp.        |18,200,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|105                      |Eizai Co.                |18,120,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|106                      |Dai-Tokyo Fire &amp; Mar-|17,970,000               | 
|                         |ine Insurance Co.        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|107                      |Daihatsu Motor Co.       |17,700,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|108                      |Keio-Teito Electric Rail-|17,672,000               | 
|                         |way Co.                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|109                      |Sapporo Breweries        |17,560,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|110                      |Asahi Breweries          |17,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|111                      |Fujisawa Pharmaceutical  |17,100,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|112                      |Chiba Bank               |17,049,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|113                      |Rinkai Construction Co.  |16,720,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|114                      |Hokuriku Bank            |16,423,900               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|115                      |Nichido Fire &amp; Marin-|16,390,000               | 
|                         |e Insurance Co.          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsui Engineering &amp; |                         | 
|                         |Shipbuilding Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|117                      |Fukuoka City Bank        |16,161,800               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|118                      |Tanabe Seiyaku Co.       |16,150,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|119                      |Fuji Heavy Industries    |16,100,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|120                      |Chiyoda Fire &amp; Marin-|15,980,000               | 
|                         |e Insurance Co.          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|121                      |Kanematsu Corp.          |15,970,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|122                      |Ashikaga Bank            |15,939,400               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|123                      |Shizuoka Bank            |15,938,800               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|124                      |Hino Motors              |15,900,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|125                      |Shionogi &amp; Co.       |15,840,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|126                      |Keisei Electric Railway  |15,836,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|127                      |Fuji Fire &amp; Marine I-|15,770,000               | 
|                         |nsurance Co.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|128                      |Toda Construction Co.    |15,622,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|129                      |Hitachi Zosen Corp.      |15,510,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|130                      |Nagoya Railway Co.       |15,270,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|131                      |Nisshin Steel Co.        |15,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Magara Construction Co.  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|133                      |Mitsui Real Estate Devel-|14,960,000               | 
|                         |opment Co.               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|134                      |Nanto Bank               |14,867,200               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|135                      |Kyoto Bank               |14,811,900               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|136                      |Nishimatsu Construction  |14,322,000               | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|137                      |Hazama Corp.             |14,122,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|138                      |Hyakujushi Bank          |14,055,400               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|139                      |Tokyu Construction Co.   |13,858,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|140                      |Tobishima Construction C-|13,822,000               | 
|                         |o.                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|141                      |Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co.    |13,613,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|142                      |Ono Pharmaceutical Co.   |13,550,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Koa Fire &amp; Marine In-|                         | 
|                         |surance Co.              |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|144                      |Oji Paper Co.            |13,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|145                      |Gunma Bank               |13,232,200               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|146                      |Honma Gumi               |13,120,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|147                      |Chugoku Bank             |13,074,500               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|148                      |Mitsubishi Chemical Indu-|12,685,000               | 
|                         |stries                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|149                      |Sato Kogyo Co.           |12,622,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|150                      |Okumura Corp.            |12,384,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|151                      |Nissan Diesel Motor Co.  |12,300,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|152                      |Taisho Pharmaceutical Co.|12,220,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|153                      |Fukuda Corp.             |12,200,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|154                      |Saeki Kensetsu Kogyo     |12,160,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|155                      |Nissan Fire &amp; Marine |12,120,000               | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|156                      |Toho Bank                |11,701,500               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|157                      |Murata Manufacturing Co. |11,600,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|158                      |Nishi-Nippon Bank        |11,538,100               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|159                      |Kankaku Securities Co.   |11,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|160                      |Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.|11,460,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|161                      |Japan Development and Co-|11,434,000               | 
|                         |nstruction Co.           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|162                      |Maeda Construction Co.   |11,422,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|163                      |Chiyoda Mutual Life Insu-|11,409,400               | 
|                         |rance Co.                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|164                      |Konoike Gumi             |11,342,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|165                      |Komatsu Forklift Co.     |11,300,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|166                      |Tekken Construction Co.  |11,222,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Construction Co.|                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsui Construction Co.  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|169                      |Nippon Hodo Co.          |11,220,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Fudo Construction Co.    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|171                      |Nishi-Nippon Railway Co. |11,002,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|172                      |Dowa Fire &amp; Marine I-|10,970,000               | 
|                         |nsurance Co.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|173                      |Dai Nippon Construction  |10,926,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|174                      |San-in Godo Bank         |10,829,800               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|175                      |Hiroshima Bank           |10,823,900               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|176                      |Shikoku Bank             |10,598,400               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|177                      |Pioneer Electric Corp.   |10,500,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|178                      |Yamaguchi Bank           |10,448,900               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|179                      |Tokyo Tomin Bank         |10,393,200               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|180                      |Seventy-Seven Bank       |10,347,100               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|181                      |Mitsubishi Estate Co.    |10,212,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|182                      |Daiyon Bank              |10,037,300               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|183                      |Toyo Suisan Kaisha       |10,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|184                      |New Japan Securities     |9,770,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|185                      |Higo Bank                |9,593,200                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|186                      |Toyota Tsusho Corp.      |9,500,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|187                      |Asanuma Corp.            |9,422,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|188                      |Dainippon Pharmaceutical |9,400,000                | 
|                         |Corp.                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|189                      |Shinwa Bank              |9,378,200                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|190                      |Mitsubishi Petrochemical |9,294,000                | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|191                      |Asahi Chemical Industry  |9,245,000                | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|192                      |Shiga Bank               |9,232,100                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|193                      |Sumitomo Chemical Co.    |9,204,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|194                      |Kyoei Fire &amp; Marine  |9,116,000                | 
|                         |Insurance Co.            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|195                      |Taiho Construction Co.   |9,060,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|196                      |Iyo Bank                 |9,020,400                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|197                      |Osue Construction Co.    |9,020,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|198                      |Alps Electric Co.        |9,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|199                      |Chiba Kogyo Bank         |8,943,600                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|200                      |Kitano Construction Corp.|8,834,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 




------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Fifty-Four Top Organizational Contributors to Kokumin Seiji Kyokai (LDP)     | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Ranking                  |Name of Organization     |Value of Donation in Yen | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1                        |Citizens Conference for  |2,282,522,896            | 
|                         |Protecting Free Society (|                         | 
|                         |Pol)                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2                        |Japanese Dentists Politi-|485,000,000              | 
|                         |cal Federation (Pol)     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3                        |Japan Medical Federation |110,000,000              | 
|                         |(Pol)                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4                        |Petroleum Association of |91,000,000               | 
|                         |Japan                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5                        |Japan Iron &amp; Steel F-|90,000,000               | 
|                         |ederation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6                        |National Petroleum Polit-|87,000,000               | 
|                         |ical Federation (Pol)    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7                        |Japan Automobile Manufac-|85,000,000               | 
|                         |turers Association       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|8                        |Japan Petrochemical Indu-|80,519,000               | 
|                         |stry Association         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|9                        |Japan Realty Association |80,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10                       |Second Regional Bank Ass-|70,000,000               | 
|                         |ociation                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|11                       |Tokyo Securities Exchang-|67,900,000               | 
|                         |e Regular Members' Assoc-|                         | 
|                         |iation                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|12                       |Japan Chemical Fibers As-|60,000,000               | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|13                       |Osaka Securities Exchang-|52,700,000               | 
|                         |e Regular Members Associ-|                         | 
|                         |ation                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|14                       |Steel Materials Club     |50,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Electrical Manufac-|                         | 
|                         |turers Association       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Department Stores  |                         | 
|                         |Association              |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|17                       |Kumamoto Prefecture Cons-|48,530,000               | 
|                         |truction Industry Politi-|                         | 
|                         |cal Federation (Pol)     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|18                       |Credit Associations of J-|45,000,000               | 
|                         |apan                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|19                       |Association of Prefabric-|44,950,000               | 
|                         |ated Building Manufactur-|                         | 
|                         |ers                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|20                       |Political Federation of  |36,680,000               | 
|                         |the Home Builders Indust-|                         | 
|                         |ry (Pol)                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|21                       |Federation of Japan Buil-|33,750,000               | 
|                         |ding Owners Associations |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|22                       |Japan Shipowners Associa-|33,000,000               | 
|                         |tion                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|23                       |Federation of Japanese C-|30,072,000               | 
|                         |hambers of Commerce and  |                         | 
|                         |Industry (Pol)           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|24                       |Cement Association of Ja-|30,000,000               | 
|                         |pan                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Road Transportation Mana-|                         | 
|                         |gement Research Council (|                         | 
|                         |Pol)                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nagoya Securities Exchan-|                         | 
|                         |ge Regular Members Assoc-|                         | 
|                         |iation                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|27                       |Japan High-Rise Residenc-|29,240,000               | 
|                         |e Association            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|28                       |Yuwakai                  |27,206,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|29                       |Plate Glass Association  |27,000,000               | 
|                         |of Japan                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Automobile Mainten-|                         | 
|                         |ance Politics Federation |                         | 
|                         |(Pol)                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|31                       |All-Japan Passenger Tran-|25,000,000               | 
|                         |sportation Research Asso-|                         | 
|                         |ciation (Pol)            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Ammonia Association|                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|33                       |Automobile Distributors  |24,600,000               | 
|                         |Political-Economic Counc-|                         | 
|                         |il (Pol)                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|34                       |Leasing Industry Associa-|23,000,000               | 
|                         |tion                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|35                       |Association To Research  |20,000,000               | 
|                         |Modernization of Port Tr-|                         | 
|                         |ansportation (Pol)       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Spinners Associati-|                         | 
|                         |on                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|37                       |Urban Development Associ-|17,600,000               | 
|                         |ation                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|38                       |Japan Federation of Phar-|15,264,000               | 
|                         |macists (Pol)            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|39                       |Japan Mining Industry As-|15,230,000               | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|40                       |Regional Policy Associat-|15,000,000               | 
|                         |ion (Pol)                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|41                       |Tochigi Prefecture Const-|15,000,000               | 
|                         |ruction Industry Associa-|                         | 
|                         |tion (Pol)               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|42                       |Japan Petroleum and Mini-|14,000,000               | 
|                         |ng Federation            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|43                       |Japan Two-by-Four Constr-|13,370,000               | 
|                         |uction Association       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|44                       |Japan Wooden Home Builde-|13,190,000               | 
|                         |rs Association           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|45                       |Central Association of C-|13,000,000               | 
|                         |redit Unions             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|46                       |Conference of Land Trans-|12,000,000               | 
|                         |portation Operators      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Bus Association (P-|                         | 
|                         |ol)                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|47                       |Japan Federation of Cosm-|11,600,000               | 
|                         |etics Industry Associati-|                         | 
|                         |ons                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|48                       |Japan Camera Industry As-|11,426,000               | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|49                       |Kagoshima Prefecture Bui-|10,000,000               | 
|                         |lders Association        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Shizuoka Prefecture Buil-|                         | 
|                         |ders Policy Promotion As-|                         | 
|                         |sociation (Pol)          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Realty Politics Le-|                         | 
|                         |ague (Pol)               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Art Dealers Nation-|                         | 
|                         |al Independent Congress (|                         | 
|                         |Pol)                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Regional-Urban Issues Re-|                         | 
|                         |search Council (Pol)     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Chain Store Associ-|                         | 
|                         |ation                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 




------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Fifty-Two Ranking Corporate Contributors to the Seiwa Kyokai (Democratic Soc-| 
|ialist Party) in 1992                                                        | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Rank                     |Name of Firm             |Value of Donation in Yen | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1                        |Shimizu Construction Co. |11,250,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2                        |Kajima Corp.             |11,150,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3                        |Obayashi Corp.           |11,050,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Taisei Corp.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Takenaka Komuten Co.     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6                        |Daikyo                   |10,000,000               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7                        |Mazda Motor Corp.        |8,200,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|8                        |Nissan Motor Co.         |7,300,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|9                        |Mitsubishi Heavy Industr-|6,650,000                | 
|                         |ies                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10                       |Sanwa Bank               |6,103,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sakura Bank              |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Bank            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Fuji Bank                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsubishi Bank          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|16                       |Industrial Bank of Japan |6,094,500                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Long-Term Credit Bank of |                         | 
|                         |Japan                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|18                       |Tokai Bank               |6,086,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Bank of Tokyo            |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|20                       |Nippon Credit Bank       |6,052,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|21                       |Daiwa Bank               |6,026,500                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|22                       |Kawasaki Steel Corp.     |6,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Kobe Steel               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nippon Steel Corp.       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Sumitomo Metal Industries|                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Toyota Motor Corp.       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nippon Oil Co.           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nippon Kokan KK          |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|29                       |Hokkaido Takushoku Bank  |5,848,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|30                       |NEC Corp.                |5,600,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|32                       |Toray                    |5,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Mitsui &amp; Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|34                       |Nippon Life Insurance Co.|4,942,740                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|35                       |Isuzu Motors Ltd.        |4,600,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|36                       |Aoki Construction Co.    |4,050,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Kumagai Gumi Co.         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Fujita Corp.             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|39                       |Honda Motor Co.          |4,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|40                       |Suzuki Motor Corp.       |3,800,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|41                       |Toshiba Corp.            |3,600,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|42                       |Asahi Bank               |3,585,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|43                       |Sumitomo Life Insurance  |3,143,580                | 
|                         |Co.                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|44                       |Daihatsu Industries      |3,100,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|45                       |Aishin Precision         |3,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Idemitsu Kosan           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Itochu                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Kubota                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Toyota Tsusho Co.        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Nippon Denso             |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Hitachi                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Matsushita Electrical In-|                         | 
|                         |dustry Co.               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 





  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Thirty-Four Top Organizational Contributors to the Seiwa Kyokai (DSP) in 1992| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Ranking                  |Name of Organization     |Value of Donation in Yen | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1                        |Tokyo Securities Exchang-|28,400,000               | 
|                         |e Regular Members Associ-|                         | 
|                         |ation                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2                        |Democratic Socialist Par-|17,747,180               | 
|                         |ty (Pol)                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3                        |Association of Japanese  |15,000,000               | 
|                         |Casualty Insurers        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4                        |Japanese Dentists Politi-|11,000,000               | 
|                         |cal Federation (Pol)     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5                        |Cement Association of Ja-|10,000,000               | 
|                         |pan                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Second Regional Bank Ass-|                         | 
|                         |ociation                 |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Chemical Fibers As-|                         | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Automobile Manufac-|                         | 
|                         |turers Association       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Iron &amp; Steel F-|                         | 
|                         |ederation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10                       |Petroleum Association of |9,000,000                | 
|                         |Japan                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|11                       |Steel Materials Club     |8,000,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|12                       |Osaka Securities Exchang-|7,800,000                | 
|                         |e Regular Members' Assoc-|                         | 
|                         |iation                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|13                       |Japan Mining Industry As-|7,000,000                | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|14                       |Democratic Socialist Par-|6,490,000                | 
|                         |ty Friendship Associatio-|                         | 
|                         |n (Pol)                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|15                       |Petrochemical Industry A-|6,000,000                | 
|                         |ssociation               |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|16                       |Realty Association       |5,250,000                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|17                       |Credit Association of Ja-|5,000,000                | 
|                         |pan                      |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|18                       |New Political-Economic R-|4,000,000                | 
|                         |esearch Council (Pol)    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Medical Federation |                         | 
|                         |(Pol)                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|20                       |Association for Viewing  |3,500,000                | 
|                         |and Moving Towards the 21|                         | 
|                         |st Century (Pol)         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|21                       |Japanese Shipowners Asso-|3,400,000                | 
|                         |ciation                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|22                       |Association To Support H-|3,000,000                | 
|                         |ideshige Ito (Pol)       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Ammonia Association|                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Federation of Cham-|                         | 
|                         |bers of Commerce and Ind-|                         | 
|                         |ustry                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Spinners Associati-|                         | 
|                         |on                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Camera Industry As-|2,870,000                | 
|                         |sociation                |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|27                       |Flat Glass Association o-|2,400,000                | 
|                         |f Japan                  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|28                       |Association To Support R-|2,000,000                | 
|                         |yohei Adachi (Pol)       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Association To Support K-|                         | 
|                         |ei Inoue of the East Jap-|                         | 
|                         |an District (Pol)        |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|30                       |Nagoya Securities Exchan-|1,800,000                | 
|                         |ge Regular Members Assoc-|                         | 
|                         |iation                   |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|31                       |Integrated Situation Res-|1,500,000                | 
|                         |earch Center (Pol)       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Japan Department Stores  |                         | 
|                         |Association              |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |Federation of Japanese B-|                         | 
|                         |uilding Associations     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|34                       |Hokkaido Electrical Secu-|1,200,000                | 
|                         |rity Association         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1. (Pol) in charts identifies political funding organizations. 2. Source of  | 
|data is Government Bulletin Number 157, issued on 10 September 1993.         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 




