BFN 

<F P=106> [Kirill Dybskiy report under the "Komsomolets" rubric: </F>
"Emergency Situations Ministry To Make Sunken Submarine Water- 
Proof"] 
  [Text] On Wednesday, the Russian Federation Ministry on 
the Affairs of Civil Defense, Emergency Situations, and the 
Elimination of Effects of Natural Disasters officially announced 
the date when the "Academician Keldysh" research ship will leave 
for the site where the "Komsomolets" nuclear submarine sank. 
Sergey Khetagurov, deputy minister of civil defense and 
emergency situations, said that the expedition will start out in 
Kaliningrad on 15 June. The "Academician Keldysh," which en 
route will also visit Denmark and Norway, will cast anchor on 1 
July at the site of the submarine's sinking. 
  The expedition has been tasked with constantly monitoring 
the 
environmental situation in the area of the submarine's demise 
and sealing its bow section. To this end, there are two deep-sea 
"Mir" bathyscaphes equipped with special on-board manipulators. 
According to Mr. Khetagurov, a total of $4.1 million and 1.5 
billion rubles has been allocated for carrying out the 
expedition from various financial sources. Its final aim, 
however, is to help draw up a large-scale federal program to 
prevent incidents with particularly dangerous objects in sea 
areas and to ensure rapid reaction in the event such incidents 
do occur. 

