CSO 

  [Excerpt] The country's forest resources are relatively 
well preserved, and there is time for them to be managed through 
appropriate policies. The reason is that the Amazon area shows a 
deforestation rate of 1.6 percent of the total recorded in Latin 
America, which is 50,000 square km per year, according to the 
FAO. This claim is made in a study from the Center for Research 
on the Capacity for Increased Land Use (CUMAT). 
  It maintains that the figures on the rate of deforestation 
previously used in the country are exaggerated, because an 
annual average of 200,000 hectares was cited, whereas the volume 
totaled only 80,087 hectares. 
  The determination of the area involved and the deforestation 
rate in Bolivia's Amazon area woods has been based on the 
assumption that the Bolivian Amazon area is the surface covered 
with wet forests, savannas, and bodies of water in the Amazon 
Basin. Also included is a small portion of the wet forests in 
the Plate Basin, approximately as far as the 18 degrees south 
latitude parallel. 
  The study revealed that the annual deforestation recorded is 
equivalent to that of an average period of five years. Santa 
Cruz Department is the one with the most deforestation, totaling 
391.7 square km (48.9 percent); followed by Cochabamba, with 
151.1 square km (18.8 percent); La Paz, with 109 square km per 
year (13.6 percent); Beni, with 98 square km (12.2 percent); and 
Pando, with 50.8 square km per year (6.3 percent). [passage 
omitted]. 

