BFN 

    [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on economic activities in Peru monitored through 23 June. 
  On 15 June the state obtained $103 million with the auction 
of 38.87 percent of its shares in the Cementos Lima plant. 
Special Privatization Committee President Jesus Zamora termed 
the auction successful, as a good profit was obtained from the 
shares, and because 58.75 percent of the shares went to 
international firms and 41.25 percent to local institutions. 
(Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 16 Jun 94 p A22) 
  The Ministry of Fisheries has obtained a "unprecedented" 
profit of $62 million from its licensing of squid fishing, which 
netted 372,877 metric tons from 1992 to May 1994. A ministry 
source said that the money is being used to build schools and 
health units, to promote a national pacification program, and to 
support the subsistence fishing sector. The ministry awarded the 
squid fishing licenses to Japanese and Korean companies, which 
won the five international bids. (Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 11 Jun 
94 p A22) 
  The PRC will grant $205 million to Peru, of which $70 
million 
will be invested in oil projects, $16 million will be donated, 
and $20 million will be designed to implement social programs. 
The Bank of China will grant $40 million in financing for 
agricultural projects, and the PRC state corporations $57 
million to implement various projects. This was reported in 
Beijing on 8 June following negotiations between PRC President 
Jiang Zemin and Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori. (Lima EL 
COMERCIO in Spanish 10 Jun 94 p A4) 
  On 6 June World Bank expert Juan Quintero reported that the 
bank will grant $400 million during the year to finance various 
projects in Peru. The bank stipulates that one out of three 
projects have to deal with environmental issues, in compliance 
with the principles observed by the bank since 1989. (Lima EL 
COMERCIO in Spanish 7 Jun 94 p A6) 
  The German Government has granted $1.2 million to Peru to 
finance a special program on the preservation, protection, and 
rational use of natural resources within a sustainable 
development scheme. This fund will be earmarked mainly for parks 
and forest reserves located in Madre de Dios, Lambayeque, 
Tumbes, Piura. (Lima LA REPUBLICA in Spanish 16 Jun 94 p 16) 
  Democratic Constituent Congress President Jaime Yoshiyama on 
21 Jun held a protocol meeting with Swiss Ambassador to Peru 
Marcus Kaiser. He then reported that his government will grant 
$33 million to Peru to implement social programs for the poorest 
sectors. (Lima Global de Television Network in Spanish 0030 GMT 
22 Jun 94) 
  The trade balance with Argentina has registered a $204.3 
million deficit in 1993, with exports at $18.3 million and 
imports at $222.6 million. Peru exports mining products, which 
have low economic significance, and imports a large quantity of 
agricultural and livestock products. (Lima EXPRESO in Spanish 13 
Jun 94 p A24) 

