BFN 

  [Text] Muslim worshippers at the Abobo Banco II Mosque were 
honored with the visit of an emissary from the head of state 
following the incidents that occurred there on 10 June between 
the security forces and worshippers during an identification 
check. On the instructions of the president of the Republic, 
Security Minister Gaston Ouassenan Kone visited the scene 
yesterday to reassure the Muslims on behalf of the government. 
Here is the message he had for them. 
  [Begin Kone recording] President Henri Konan Bedie, who was 
informed about certain incidents that occurred here, has asked 
me to bring you his greetings and to express his distress over 
the incident. I am therefore here to convey his message and to 
assure you that the incident will not be repeated. It will not 
be repeated because in this country, which was built by 
President Houphouet- Boigny who sought to make it a country of 
peace and hospitality, it is not normal for such incidents to 
occur. 
  We know that certain measures have been taken concerning 
resident permits. As you know, the present head of state has 
taken over a mandate which he has to complete so, obviously, not 
everything can be changed during this period. We are examining 
the issue of resident permits, but action will be taken on it in 
future. What I can tell you now is that President Bedie has 
decided that henceforth resident permits will no longer be 
checked on Fridays. I have also asked the Abobo mayor to 
provide me with all the information he was able to gather here 
so that when I return to my office I can take the necessary 
disciplinary measures. As you know, we do not trifle with such 
matters when the country's interest is at stake. [end recording] 

