Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, March 25 KYODO -- Friday's [25 March] 
planned 24-hour strike was called off shortly after midnight 
Thursday when major private railway unions reached agreement 
with management on an average 3.94 percent wage hike. The 
unions agreed to accept a benchmark monthly wage increase of 
11,400 yen, or 3.94 percent, calling off a planned daylong 
strike as part of Japan's "spring labor offensive." 
  Union representatives issued an order to cancel the 
threatened strike at 1 A.M. Friday. 
  The package also includes an annual bonus of 5.4 months 
worth 
of salaries. 
  Because of the midnight accord, 12 railway companies 
operated 
their train runs without any interruption Friday morning and bus 
services by nine private companies began from the start of the 
day on schedule. 
  Parties to the agreement include railway companies Tobu, 
Tokyu, and Keisei, Teito Rapid Transit Authority, Keio Teito, 
and Sagami railway in the Kanto region centered on Tokyo. 
  Among other railway firms covered by the agreement are 
Nagoya 
railroad in the Chubu region centered on Nagoya, the Hankyu, 
Hanshin, Keihan, and Nankai railway lines in the Kansai region 
centered on Osaka and Kyoto, and the Nishi Nippon Railroad in 
Kyushu. 
  The Transport Ministry had predicted that over 22 million 
people would be affected in Tokyo and other major Japanese 
cities if the strike took place. 

