BOOKS,  JOURNALS, COMMERCIAL DATA BASES, AND OTHER OPEN-SOURCE 
PUBLICATIONS, OR ON RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTS.  SOME OF THE 
MATERIALS USED IN THIS PUBLICATION WILL APPEAR AS ABSTRACTS OR FULL 
TRANSLATIONS IN FBIS SERIAL REPORTS.  COMMENTS AND QUERIES REGARDING 
THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE DIRECTED TO THE MANAGING EDITOR (SHARON W. 
AT (703) 733-6395), THE EDITORIAL ASSISTANT (CHRIS R. AT (703) 733- 
6622), OR INDIVIDUALS AT THE NUMBERS LISTED WITH ITEMS. 

   DEVELOPMENTS 

   DEVELOPMENTS  highlights worldwide S&amp;T events reported in the 
foreign media. Items followed  by an asterisk will be published in 
full by  FBIS.  The contributor's name and telephone number are 
provided. 

   Aerospace 

   (China) Scientists at the Chinese Academy of Sciences' Institute 
of Semiconductors in Beijing have developed an aluminum gallium 
arsenide/gallium arsenide heterojunction solar cell fabricated with 
a multiwafer extrusion-boat liquid-phase epitaxy (LPE) technique. Up 
to 20 epitaxial wafers can be grown per cycle, compared with one 
wafer per cycle with traditional LPE graphite-boat techniques. Full- 
surface conversion efficiencies for the two best samples were 18.78 
percent and 17.33 percent.  The new LPE technique is applicable to 
the fabrication of solar cells, especially for space vehicle power 
sources, as well as the manufacture of light-emitting and other 
optoelectronic devices. (ZHONGGUO KEXUE BAO 24 Nov 93)* Thomas T. 
733-6342 

   (China) The Chinese Academy of Sciences' Space Sciences Applied 
Research Center has developed a 275-kilogram balloon microgravity 
experimental system under the state's 863 program. The system, which 
is like those already developed by Japan and Germany, simulates the 
microgravity environment in space by dropping a capsule from a 
balloon at an altitude of 35 kilometers in order to maintain a 
microgravity environment of 10(exp)-4 g to 10(exp)-2 g in free-fall 
for 31 seconds.  In the initial test, which analyzed the 
characteristics of dust explosion, all on-board instruments 
functioned well and capsule recovery was successful.  Researchers 
plan to conduct experiments in the areas of materials, life 
sciences, fluid dynamics, and fuels, as well as on various 
experimental payloads for satellites and airships. (ZHONGGUO KEXUE 
BAO 15 Dec 93) Parker H. 733-6336 

      (Italy) The European Space Agency (ESA) has assigned the 
development of a robot control system for aerospace applications to 
an industrial team led by the European space automation and robotic 
company Tecnospazio. The project is based on an industrial control 
system developed by Comau (Fiat group) and will be integrated into 
the Columbus Automation Testbed (CAT) delivered to ESA in 1992. 
(ANSASERVICE 19 Jan 94) Wendy P. (Brussels Bureau)/Renee McG. 733- 
6339 

   (South Korea/Russia) Daewoo Heavy Industry will open an aviation 
technology research center near Moscow on 30 March. Daewoo plans to 
improve upon the design for Russia's 28-passenger helicopters--the 
MI-8 and the MI-17--and to develop the next-generation transport and 
5-ton class multipurpose helicopters.  The company plans to use 
Russia's aviation technology for its own helicopter design, engine 
manufacturing, and maintenance technologies to produce ready-for- 
market helicopter products. (MAEIL KYONGJE SINMUN 8 Jan 94) William 
H. 733-6521 

   Battery Technology 

   (China) Researchers at the Institute of New Energy Materials 
Chemistry at Nankai University in Tianjin have developed a high- 
performance AA-size sealed nickel metal hydride battery. Its key 
performance indicators include a nominal capacity that exceeds 1,000 
milliampere-hours; a 5-ampere discharge-to-0.8-volt average capacity 
that exceeds 950 milliampere-hours (95 percent of rated capacity); a 
low-temperature (-18 degrees C) 2-ampere discharge-to-1.0-volt 
average capacity of 835 milliampere-hours (83 percent of rated 
capacity); a seven-day self-discharge of 15 percent and a 28-day 
self-discharge of 29 percent; and a lifetime of more than 500 
cycles, based on a 1.75-hour 400-milliampere-charge/1.25-hour 400- 
milliampere-discharge test.  The researchers have completed batch 
trial production and have built an intermediate testing site with a 
single-shift annual output of 500,000 units. (GAO JISHU TONGXUN Dec 
93)* Thomas T. 733-6342 

   Biotechnology 

   (Japan) Under the guidance of the Biochemistry Department at the 
Cancer Institute of the Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company is conducting human genome research 
with the intent of cloning genes associated with disease. The 
company established the Tokushima Research Center within its 
Diagnostic Medicine Division in May 1993 both to do the research and 
to develop commercial applications for human genome analysis. 
Following the installation of eight DNA sequencers at the Tokushima 
center,  Otsuka Pharmaceutical succeeded in cloning a partial 
sequence of DNA that is complementary to messenger RNA extracted 
from fetal brain tissue.  The company is establishing a library of 
these cloned complementary DNA fragments, which have been linked to 
disease. Otsuka researchers, who began complete sequencing of newly 
discovered genes this year, plan to examine the role of the cloned 
complementary DNA fragments in the expression of genes associated 
with disease.  Otsuka Pharmaceutical ultimately hopes to develop 
diagnostic and therapeutic drugs using the results of its research 
on DNA sequencing and gene expression. (NIKKEI BIOTECHNOLOGY 17 Jan 
94)* Ritsuko G. 733-6333 

   Computers 

   (France) A group of researchers led by Nobel Laureate Jean-Marie 
Lehn at the College De France in Paris has developed an optical 
switch consisting of a thiophene molecule. When hit with ultraviolet 
light the molecule "closes" and allows electrons to pass through; 
when hit with infrared light it "opens" and blocks the flow of 
electrons. This molecular "switch" could have applications in the 
development of optical molecular computers. (ANSASERVICE 29 Dec 93) 
Wendy P. (Brussels Bureau)/Renee McG. 733-6339 
   (China) Engineers at the China Aerospace Corporation's (CASC's) 
Third Academy and at Harbin Institute of Technology have jointly 
developed the nation's first advanced supercomputer real-time three- 
dimensional computer image generation (CIG) system.  With a peak 
speed of 300 million operations per second (MOPS), the system can 
process 80 million pixels per second or generate 200,000 triangles 
per second.  It can also generate in real time lifelike three- 
dimensional images from a variety of observation points and with up 
to 16 million color varieties.  China's CIG system will have 
applications in astronaut and flight training, and in missile 
development.  (RENMIN RIBAO OVERSEAS EDITION 15 Dec 93)* 
Thomas T. 733-6342 

   (China) The State Science and Technology Commission announced in 
December 1993 that China's first computer software state engineering 
research center (SERC) will be established in Shenyang to engage in 
multimedia software R&amp;D and marketing. The facility will grow out of 

the Northeast University Software Center, which produced 30 million 
yuan ($3.45 million) worth of software in 1993.  In a separate 
development, ground was broken for the Southern Software Industrial 
Park in Zhuhai on 29 November 1993.  Funding and construction for 
this Key State Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) Project are the joint 
responsibility of the Ministry of Electronics Industry and the 
Zhuhai Municipal Government. Investment for the 320,000-square-meter 
park totals almost 300 million yuan ($34.5 million). When first- 
phase construction is complete in two years, 15 to 20 firms with 
1,500 engineers and managers are expected to establish facilities 
there. Annual sales are projected at 400 million yuan ($46 million), 
with 70 percent of the products to be exported, realizing annual 
export revenues of 250 million yuan ($29 million). (KEJI RIBAO 18 
Dec 93; JISUANJI SHIJIE 1 Dec 93)* Thomas T. 733-6342 

   (Japan) An Aizu University research group that includes 20 
software specialists from the former Soviet Union is developing the 
world's fastest massively parallel supercomputer.  In Japan, where 
very few manufacturers have succeeded in developing massively 
parallel computer technology, this reportedly is the first time a 
university has pursued R&amp;D in this area without outside 
participation or support. The university plans to make all developed 
technology available to other research organizations. (TOKYO SHIMBUN 
10 Jan 94) Steve Z. 733-6340 

   Environment 

   (Russia) The Astrofizika Scientific Production Association is 
seeking financing for a project to market a military gas detection 
device converted for environmental monitoring. The self-propelled 
mobile unit, which was developed for remote rapid detection of the 
most toxic neuroparalytic gases, scans 25 square kilometers per 
minute using a lidar laser locator.  Astrofizika has created a 
database containing several hundred thousand spectra for detecting 
various environmental pollutants.  The Russian scientists claim a 
truck-mounted version of the environmental monitoring device can 
detect toxic industrial emissions, and a helicopter-transported unit 
can detect oil and gas pipeline leaks.  The Russian Federation 
Ministry of Science and Technology Policy has promised subsidies for 
the project, but Moscow reportedly has not yet provided any funds. 
(IZVESTIYA 9 Oct 93) Roberta D. 733-6331 

   (Japan) Hosokawa Micron has a contract for nearly 1 billion yen 
($9.5 million) to deliver exhaust gas reprocessing equipment to a 
Russian aluminum refinery by the end of 1994. Hosokawa Micron's 
affiliate in Germany developed the system, which recycles fluorine 
waste generated in the electrolysis of aluminum oxide. The equipment 
previously had been exported to Canada and Europe, but this is the 
first such equipment to be used in Russia. Hosokawa Micron has also 
received an order from Russia amounting to about 500 million yen 
($4.76 million) for equipment to recycle telephone and electrical 
power cables. The recycling equipment can break cables down into 
vinyl, copper, and aluminum and recycle the metals.  The first 
shipment of the equipment, which was developed by a German company 
now owned by Hosokawa  Micron, was to be in January 1994. (NIHON 
KEIZAI SHIMBUN 23 Dec 93) Junko A. 733-6346 

   (Japan) Kobe Steel,  Ltd. is testing and hopes to market a 300- 
kilowatt plasma fusion plant that detoxifies low-level radioactive 
waste generated in nuclear power plants.  The company has already 
delivered a small plasma fusion pilot plant (under 100 kilowatts per 
hour fusion capacity) to the Central Research Institute of the 
Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI).  Originally developed to treat ash 
from incinerated urban refuse,  plasma fusion technology reduces the 
volume of waste to one-fifth and the amount of exhaust gas to less 
than one-thirtieth that produced by combustion.  The compact, 
cylinder-shaped plasma fusion furnace continuously supplies ash and 
generates ingots, resulting in a low concentration of nitrogen oxide 
in the exhaust gas.  The furnace's plasma torch provides highly 
efficient heating as well as a choice between transfer-type and non- 
transfer-type plasma generation.  Various non-flammables such as 
metals and concrete can be processed simultaneously, and continuous 
processing allows the handling of large amounts of material. Plasma- 
fused materials are buried in concrete shields, and exhaust gas is 
treated with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters and 
ceramic filters. (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 13 Dec 93) Junko A. 733-6346 

   Industrial Technology 

   (Russia/Uzbekistan) Moscow State University researchers have 
demonstrated the feasibility of using alternating nonuniform 
electromagnetic field energy to accelerate the enzymatic hydrolysis 
of cellulose for the commercial production of methane, food, and 
animal feed.  The researchers added ferromagnetic particles to a 
mixture of cellulose and cellulolytic enzymes from the fungus 
Trichoderma reesei and excited the particles with an electromagnetic 
field. This agitation increased the speed of hydrolysis by as much 
as nine times and resulted in a higher concentration of glucose and 
cellobiose hydrolysis products in one to two hours than did the two- 
day control experiments.  In a related development, the Scientific 
Research Institute for Chemical Technologies in Tashkent has 
developed a clean technology for making cellulose from rice straw. 
The process produces 0.5 ton of cellulose from 1 ton of straw, while 
reducing water consumption by nearly 90 percent. (DOKLADY AKADEMII 
NAUK Dec 93; NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA 5 Jan 94) Roberta D. 733-6331 

   Lasers 

   (Japan) Mitsubishi Electric Corporation has developed a 24-watt 
green light laser with twice the power of other Japanese green light 
lasers. It is part of a solid-state laser system that also includes 
an yttrium-aluminum-garnet (YAG) laser and a potassium titanate 
phosphate crystal element that converts the 1,064-nanometer- 
wavelength infrared (IR) YAG laser light to green laser light with a 
wavelength of 532 nanometers and 24 watts of power. Previous 
attempts by Japanese researchers to achieve conversion to such a 
high output level failed because the strong IR radiation caused 
crystal damage. Mitsubishi claims to have solved this problem by 
lengthening the wavelength conversion element, increasing the YAG 
laser beam's spot size, and finding the optimal phase matching for 
the adjoining parts of crystals that form the long wavelength 
conversion element.  Commercial applications for this green light 
laser include compact disc recording.  (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 24 Nov 
93)* John H. 733-6341 

   (Japan) Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. has developed a 
surface-emission laser optoelectronic integrated circuit system that 
operates at optical switching speeds of up to 10 gigahertz, ten 
times the speed of conventional systems of this type. The new system 
uses 64 unique surface-emission lasers arrayed in a 480-micron 
square cell. All of the lasers operate at a wavelength of 0.98 
nanometer and have built-in driver transistors. The company expects 
this "transistor-on-laser" system to serve as a basic technology in 
the development of ultrafast  high-volume optical communications and 
optical computers. (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 8 Dec 93)* John H. 733-6341 

   Microelectronics 

   (France) SGS-Thomson has developed a fuzzy logic microprocessor, 
based on 0.7-micron complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) 
technology. The Weight Associative Rule Processor (WARP) 
microprocessor integrates over 400,000  transistors on an 88-square- 
millimeter chip and can process 10 million inferences per second 
with 40 megahertz clockspeed.  This is a complete fuzzy processor 
that includes "fuzzification," processing of inferences, and 
"defuzzification."  According to the director of SGS-Thomson's 
Advanced Systems Architectures Group, the WARP microprocessor is 
capable of evaluating 32 rules with 5 inputs and one output in less 
than 1.85 microseconds.  (For previous reporting on the WARP 
microprocessor, see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 2, 29 Jan 93.) 
(ELECTRONIQUE INTERNATIONAL HEBDO 18 Nov 93)* Ioan M. 733-6334 

   Optoelectronics 

   (China) Qinghua University scientists, in collaboration with 
colleagues from four other domestic research organizations, have 
developed China's first semiconductor-laser-pumped erbium-doped 
fiber-optic amplifier.  Pumped by both 980-and 1,480-nanometer- 
wavelength laser diodes, the amplifier has measured optical gains of 
28 decibels and 25 decibels, respectively; maximum saturated output 
power measures 6.3 milliwatts at both wavelengths; and frequency 
bandwidth measures 26 nanometers and 40 nanometers, respectively. 
(KEJI RIBAO 16 Dec 93)* Thomas T. 733-6342 

   S&amp;T Policy 

   (China/Japan) In December 1993, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) 
Vice President Yan Yixun and Japan's National Space Development 
Agency (NASDA) Director Masato Yamano signed a bilateral agreement 
in Tokyo that will allow China to receive and distribute data from 
Japan's Earth Resources Satellite (JERS-1). According to the 
agreement, NASDA will transmit data gathered by JERS-1 to the CAS 
Remote Sensing Satellite Ground Station gratis. (ZHONGGUO KEXUE BAO 
20 Dec 93)* Thomas T. 733-6342 

   Telecommunications 

   (Japan) Hitachi has developed five radio-frequency power modules 
for use in portable telephones.  The new modules result in an 
improvement of 10 percent or more in operating efficiency and allow 
a 20-percent increase in communication time compared with previous 
types.  Sample shipments of the modules, which are made using 
submicron metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) 
technology, will begin in 1994. Hitachi, which is aiming to increase 
its share of foreign markets, will supply analog 6-and 4.8-volt 
units to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in North America 
and Europe. (DEMPA SHIMBUN 20 Dec 93) Steve Z. 733-6340 

   (Japan) Sharp is installing a company telecommunications wide 
area network to facilitate access to patent information and to 
automate accounting. The network will link 3,000 terminals at 44 
locations throughout Japan, including the company's headquarters in 
Osaka, laboratories, plants, and offices. Local area networks (LANs) 
are being established at 17 of the locations using integrated 
services digital networks (ISDN) and other systems.  Larger 
facilities are using 10-million-bit-per-second Ethernet LANs within 
offices and high-capacity fiber-optic communications between 
buildings. Sharp is using its own independent and ISDN circuits to 
connect the LANs. The company is investing more than 1 billion yen 
($9.5 million) in the new network, with which Sharp expects to 
quintuple its communications efficiency.  (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 21 
Dec 93) Steve Z. 733-6340 

    (France) The Magnetism Group of Thomson's Central Research 
Laboratory (LCR), which developed a prototype digital magnetic tape 
recorder using massively parallel technology, has designed a new 
model for use with VHS tape. (For reporting on Thomson's prototype, 
see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8  No. 2,  29 Jan 93.) Whereas the prototype 
operated at a data transfer rate of 20 megabits per second, the new 
device operates at a data transfer  rate of 500 megabits per second. 
Its write head can record to 1,000 10-micron-wide tracks. (SCIENCES 
ET AVENIR Dec 93)* Ioan M. 733-6334 

   FEATURE ARTICLES 

   FRANCE/ITALY: SMALL SATELLITE LAUNCHER PROPOSED 

   Key Points: Following two years of joint studies, France's 
National Center for Space Studies and the Italian Space Agency have 
proposed a four-stage launcher capable of placing satellites 
weighing 1 ton into low-Earth orbit. 

   Topic Sentence:  The European Small Launcher proposed by the 
French and Italian space agencies would deliver 1-ton payloads to 
low-Earth orbit. 

   Following two years of study, France's National Center for Space 
Studies (CNES) and the Italian Space Agency (ASI) have jointly 
proposed a four-stage launcher capable of placing satellites 
weighing up to 1 ton into low-Earth orbit, according to a recent 
article in AIR &amp; COSMOS/AVIATION INTERNATIONAL (20 Dec 93-2 Jan 94). 

CNES and ASI expect the European Small Launcher (ESL) to fill a need 
they believe will exist by the year 2000 for a small launcher 
offering maximum reliability at minimum cost and capable of two to 
10 launches a year. The  ESL would also allow Europe to compete in 
this market with Lockheed's LLV minilauncher, due to enter service 
in late 1994.  CNES  estimates the ESL could launch 1 ton to an 
altitude of 700 kilometers for $20 million, which approximates the 
cost of a comparable launch using the LLV. CNES further estimates 
the total development cost for the ESL at 1.8 billion francs ($310 
million) over four and a half years. 

   COVER GRAPHIC: Color illustration of European Small Launcher 

   Although the European Space Agency (ESA) recently began a market 
study for a mini launcher, CNES and ASI believe an ESA-sponsored 
mini launcher is neither politically nor financially feasible, and 
that it will therefore be up to France and Italy to build and 
finance the project, with contributions from European industry. 
Participating companies include Aerospatiale and SEP (France), BPD 
(Italy),  DASA (Germany), Contraves (Switzerland), and SABCA 
(Belgium).  (For previous reporting on Aerospatiale's plans to 
compete in the minilauncher market, see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 8, 
31 Aug 93 and Vol. 8 No. 12, 30 Dec 93.) 

   CNES and ASI believe the ESL will meet the need for several 
launches per year of clusters of 200-to 700-kilogram commercial 
telecommunications satellites (such as the Iridium and Globalstar 
systems), to be placed in low-Earth orbit at inclinations of 60 to 
90 degrees; one or more 500-kilogram Earth observation satellites to 
be placed in sun-synchronous orbit at 800 kilometers; at least one 
200-to 500-kilogram scientific satellite (such as Sweden's Viking 
and Freja);  and military telecommunications or reconnaissance 
satellites. The ESL will be capable of launching a minimum payload 
of 100 kilograms to any orbit, up to 600 kilograms to a 1,400- 
kilometer orbit, or 1,000 kilograms to a 700-kilometer orbit. With a 
cylindrical volume of 4.8  meters x 2.2 meters, the launcher's 
maximum payload will be 1.4 to 1.5  tons.  The ESL will attain a 
maximum altitude of 5,000 kilometers. Launch reliability is expected 
to be 99 percent and the accuracy of payload insertion into orbit 
will be 4 kilometers on the semimajor axis and 0.01 degree in 
inclination. The single or dual payload will be accommodated in a 
fairing measuring 4.8 meters long with a maximum diameter of 2.2 
meters. Acceleration will be 7 g. 

   Because CNES believes a low development cost for the launch 
vehicle is critical, the ESL's design incorporates as many existing 
components as possible. The launcher, which measures 25 meters long 
by 2.6 meters in diameter and weighs 121 tons, was built with 
technology developed for the Ariane 5.  Its first three stages use 
Ariane 5's hydroxy-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) solid propellant. 
The launcher's first two stages are identical in size but have 
nozzles adapted for functioning on the ground  (P50 A) or in space 
(P50 B). These first two stages each carries 51.2 tons of HTPB in a 
lightweight carbon-fiber wound casing made using the same technology 
as that used for France's M5 ballistic missile; thrust for these 
stages measures 173 and 190 tons, respectively. The third stage, P7, 
carries 7.2 tons of HTPB in a carbon-fiber casing measuring 2.3 
meters in diameter and has a 23-ton thrust. The fourth stage is a 
liquid-fuel terminal-propulsion module (LM)  housed in the equipment 
bay, which measures 2.6  meters.  This stage provides roll and 
attitude control, final trajectory correction, and orbit 
circularization. It carries 260 kilograms of hydrazine and its six 
nozzles provide 400 newtons of thrust. 

   As an alternative to the P7 solid-fuel third stage, DASA has been 
studying a liquid-fuel third stage (L5) carrying 5 tons of 
unsymmetrical dimethyl-hydrazine (N(sub)20(sub)4/UDMH).  It uses the 
Aestus engine, which is derived from the Ariane 5's L9.7 third stage 
and has a thrust of 27.5  kilonewtons.  Because it would require a 
200-kilogram reduction in payload capacity, DASA's alternative 
probably will not be used, according to AIR &amp; COSMOS. CNES estimates 

the ESL can be built in four and a half years, and hopes to get 
final approval by 1995 in order to begin construction in early 1995 
and begin flying in mid-1999.  ANSASERVICE (12 Jan 94) reports that 
the project's definition phase is to be completed by June 1994. 
Initial plans are for two launches per year from the Ariane 5 launch 
platform in Kourou, French Guiana,  with expectations of increasing 
the number to between five and ten launches per year. 

   Alexis M. 733-6345 

   SOUTH KOREA: 1994 S&amp;T BUDGET, 1993 S&amp;T ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

   Key Points:  The South Korean Government's 1994 S&amp;T budget of 
nearly 2 trillion won ($2.5 billion) is the country's largest to 
date, representing 2.2 percent of the national budget and a 32.7- 
percent increase over last year. Figures on the 1994 distribution of 
funds among the ministries, and within the Ministry of Science and 
Technology (MOST), are provided along with a summary of that 
ministry's key accomplishments in 1993. 

   Topic Sentence:  The largest share of the nearly 2-trillion-won 
1994 S&amp;T budget is allocated for R&amp;D. 

   South Korea's 1994 science and technology budget--defined as 
"direct support" to agencies of the central government for S&amp;T- 
related activities--has been set at 1.9596 trillion won ($2.45 
billion), according to a report in the 5 January CHUGAN MAEGYONG. 
The amount, which includes  R&amp;D,  S&amp;T promotion, and administrative 

budgets, is 32.7 percent higher than the reported 1993 S&amp;T budget of 

1.4767 trillion won  ($1.846  billion). Government S&amp;T expenditures, 

which make up 20 percent of the  total funds spent by South Korea on 
science and technology, account for 2.2 percent of the 1994 national 
budget, compared to 4.7 percent in the United States and 2.9 percent 
in Japan, according to the report. 

   The largest share of the new S&amp;T budget, some 1.5132 trillion won 

($1.892 billion), is allotted to R&amp;D,  representing a 30-percent 
increase over 1993. Specific R&amp;D categories to be funded include: 
state-funded research expenses 712.2 billion won ($890 million), up 
20 percent; R&amp;D subsidies 252.1 billion won ($315 million), up 54 
percent; and "testing and research expenses for national testing and 
research agencies" 243.3 billion won ($304 million), up 17 percent. 
The largest overall increase of 240 percent will go to the Ministry 
of Education, followed by the Environmental Agency with a 65.8- 
percent increase, and the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 
whose budget will grow by 49 percent (CHUGAN MAEGYONG). 

   S&amp;T budgets within the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST), 

funded by public and private sources, are shown in the following 
table (MAEIL KYONGJE SINMUN 1 Jan 94). 


Institute                            Budget             Personnel 
                           (billion won)  (million $)         (PhDs) 


Korea Institute of Science     67.075       83.84      787    (247) 
and Technology (KIST) 
System Engineering Research    28.632       35.79      357     (22) 
Institute (SERI) 
Genetic Engineering Research   16.462       20.58      225     (73) 
Institute (GERI) 
Research and Development        4.555        5.69       54      (1) 
Information Center 
S and T Policy Management       7.609        9.51      114     (22) 
Research Institute 
Korea Advanced Institute of    78.215       97.77      852    (311) 
S and T (KAIST) 
Korea Res Inst of Standards    28.771       35.96      472     (99) 
and Science (KRISS) 
National Astronomical           9.920       12.40       89     (12) 
Observatory 
Basic Science Support          10.865       13.58       75      (9) 
Center 
Korea Institute of Machinery   52.723       65.90      574     (95) 
and Metals (KIMM) 
Korea Aerospace Research       23.674       29.59      127     (33) 
Institute (KARI) 
Korea Institute of Nuclear     21.278       26.60      272     (53) 
Safety 
Korea Atomic Energy Research  171.200      214.00    1,625    (211) 
Institute (KAERI) 
Hospital for Nuclear           38.938       48.67      842     (38) 
Medicine 
Nuclear Environment            72.341       90.43      320     (61) 
Management Center 
Korea Institute of Energy      19.396       24.25      347     (83) 
Research (KIER) 
Resources Research             29.722       37.15      457    (112) 
Institute 
Korea Ocean Research and       27.459       34.32      347     (76) 
Development Inst (KORDI) 
Korea Electrotechnology        25.437       31.80      325     (45) 
Research Institute 
Korea Research Institute of    27.379       34.22      405    (110) 
Chemical Tech (KRICT) 
Korea Science Foundation      103.887      129.86      120      (1) 
Kwangju Science and            23.970       29.96       --      -- 
Technology Institute 
Total                         889.511    1,111.87    8,786  (1,714) 



   MKS further reports that in late 1993 MOST decided that beginning 
in March 1994, its institutes will specialize in particular 
technologies. For example, KIST will focus on three-dimensional 
image media technology, "human robot systems," and advanced medical 
treatments. 

   MOST's key technological successes of 1993, published in the 29 
December CHUGAN MAEGYONG include: 

   -- A "robot sculptor" by KIST that can produce likenesses of 
individual human faces in 20 minutes; potential applications are in 
factory automation; 

-- A high-temperature superconducting quantum interference device 
(SQUID) by KRISS; 

-- South Korea's first indigenous Earth satellite, the "Our Star 2" 
by KAIST; 

-- A 1-centimeter x 10-centimeter molten carbonate fuel cell by KIST 
that produces 100 watts of power; 

-- A substance, GERI-BP001, developed by GERI from a soil mold, that 
reduces blood serum cholesterol; 

-- Development of the chemical compound HFC-134a as a freon 
substitute, by KIST; 

-- Precision laser welding equipment, by KAERI; 

-- A high-temperature (140K) superconductor developed jointly by 
the Research Institute of Industrial Science and Technology and 
Pohang Steel in high-pressure mercury vapor; 

-- Technology by KORDI to produce eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) 
chemical compounds from marine microorganisms; 

-- Development of technology by KARI used to manufacture a solid- 
fuel rocket motor able to lift a 50- to 70-kilogram scientific 
payload to an altitude of 80 to 90 kilometers; 

-- Rayon developed by KIST that is twice as strong as the existing 
material and manufactured without pollutants; 

-- Technology developed by KRICT to reduce chemical solvent wastes; 

-- Manufacture by KAIST of an ultrahigh-precision (nanometer-scale) 
lathe. 

   William H. 733-6521 

   SOUTH KOREA: INDUSTRY PLANNING MAJOR DRIVE INTO LCD MARKET 

   Key Points:  South Korea's large electronics firms are investing 
heavily in technology and equipment for liquid crystal displays in 
an effort to make South Korea more competitive with Japan. The South 
Korean Government expects patent friction to arise as the product 
line expands. 

   Topic Sentence:  Hyundai is developing advanced liquid crystal 
display products through its US subsidiary, while Samsung benefits 
from a joint technology agreement with a Japanese firm. 

   South Korean electronics companies are investing heavily in thin- 
film-transistor liquid crystal displays (TFT-LCDs),  with a goal of 
transforming this into the industry's second highest value-added 
product after semiconductors, according to the 5 January MAEIL 
KYONGJE SINMUN (MKS). The newspaper reports that South Korea's three 
major producers--Goldstar Electron,  the Samsung Group, and Hyundai 
Electronics--in their first three years of work on TFT-LCDs, have 
already commercialized a number of high-quality  products at the 
super video graphic array (VGA) level. 

   Goldstar plans to invest 500 billion won ($625 million) in new 
assembly lines to be completed in May 1995 that will have an annual 
production of 500,000  3-  to  12.3-inch  units.  In November NIKKEI 
MICRODEVICES reported that $400 million of that investment will go 
toward the production of 10-inch panels. MKS meanwhile reports that 
Goldstar has become the second company in the world to develop a 
high-resolution 12.3-inch LCD  panel.  MKS and NIKKEI report that 
Goldstar will spend an additional $250 million by 1997 to raise its 
annual LCD production capacity to 1 million units. South Korea plans 
to invest another 140 billion won  ($175 million) in R&amp;D to improve 

product quality "beyond that of its Japanese competitors," according 
to MKS. 

   NIKKEI and MKS also report that in 1992 Hyundai began developing 
10.4-inch TFT-LCD color panels at its US research subsidiary, Image 
Quest Technology. It has  completed preparations for trial runs at 
its US pilot plant and expects to begin production in South Korea by 
1995. 

   According to the 5 January MKS, Samsung, which is already 
producing small quantities of TFT-LCDs on a pilot line for use in 
its own notebook PCs, is planning to expand its TFT-LCD production, 
with the ultimate goal of completely indigenous production. MKS 
reports the group will invest 450 billion won ($562.5 million) in 
LCDs in  1994. The 8 November MKS said that Samsung Electron 
Devices, one of the group's subsidiaries, was investing 300 billion 
won ($375 million) to increase annual LCD production by 100 percent 
to 2 million units by 1994, and to 5 million units by the year 2000. 

   Samsung's efforts to assume a more prominent position in LCD R&amp;D 

probably will be bolstered by cooperation from Japanese industry. 
For example,  according to the 8 November MKS, Samsung Electron 
Devices was planning to set up a research institute in Japan to 
obtain LCD technology, and to proceed with arrangements for LCD 
technology transfer from Japanese companies.  Late last December 
Samsung announced its agreement with Japan's Toshiba to jointly 
develop integrated circuits for LCDs by merging its own basic 
technology with Toshiba's production technology (MAEIL KYONGJE 
SINMUN 28 Dec 93).  The two companies reportedly will cooperate 
throughout all stages of development,  from basic standards through 
final reliability tests to create a product that "stands at the 
forefront of world technology."  According to MKS, Samsung believes 
the arrangement will help the company expand sales in the United 
States, Europe, and Japan, while at the same time helping to 
strengthen South Korea's  position in the development of nonmemory 
semiconductors. Tokyo DENPA (28 December 93) reported that work will 
begin this summer on chips with applications for TFT-LCDs and super- 
twisted nematic (STN)) LCDs,  and that the two companies will also 
work to standardize pin  arrangements, which has been an industry 
bottleneck. 

   South Korea's move into LCDs is raising concern there about the 
need to devise "countermeasures" in anticipation of a foreign 
patents offensive," according to the 13 January MKS. Although LCD- 
related patent disputes have not yet surfaced, the newspaper expects 
friction to arise in 1996 when South Korean firms begin mass- 
producing advanced devices.  According to the South Korean Patents 
Administration, foreign patent  applications in this field numbered 
862 between 1976 and 1992, with Swiss, British, and German companies 
already demanding royalties from South Korea for premium color LCDs, 
TFT-LCDs, and liquid crystal materials. For their part, South Korean 
companies have filed 1,350 LCD-related patent applications, most of 
which have been for black-and-white equipment, so the industry can 
expect some "hard blows," MKS predicts.  The newspaper quotes a 
Patents Administration official who urges South Korean firms to 
reduce the potential damage to domestic companies by "signing 
licensing agreements beforehand" for technology about which there is 
concern over patent infringement." 

   Commenting on South  Korea's  LCD efforts overall, the 1 December 
SILMUL KYONGJE, a Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade 
(KIET) publication, notes that South Korea's 1992 LCD production 
amounted to $88 million or just 2 percent of the world market. 
Current investment plans, however, will cause the domestic LCD 
industry to grow, on average, 51 percent annually between 1994 and 
2001, by which time South Korea will have 14 percent of the world 
market and will rank second only to Japan. KIET estimates the level 
of domestic production technology for LCD's at 90 percent that of 
Japan's, although design and basic technology are only about half. 
South Korean companies have the technology to mass-produce twisted 
nematic LCDs at 90 percent of Japan's rate, STN LCDs at 40 percent, 
and TFT-LCDs at slightly less than 70 percent of Japan's rate, 
according to SILMUL KYONGJE. 

   KIET says it would like to see South Korean LCD manufacturers 
cooperate in the joint development of components. In 1992, domestic 
firms reportedly organized a manufacturer's association that has 
focused its research on displays, which, according to KIET, helped 
reduce  "overlapping  investment."  In KIET's view, however, 
competition between South Korean firms will continue to stand in the 
way of joint efforts. NIKKEI MICRODEVICES notes as well that plans 
by Samsung and Goldstar to manufacture their own components for TFT 
panels is at odds with the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy's 
policy of apportioning parts  and  materials production to small and 
medium-sized businesses. 

   William H. 733-6521 

   REPORTS 

   REPORTS surveys science and technology trends as detailed in 
articles, books, and journals.  It also includes summaries and 
listings of articles and books that may serve as potential sources 
for future research. 

   JAPAN: HOPE ALFLEX WIND TUNNEL TESTS 

   The National Aerospace Laboratory (NAL) and the National Space 
Development Agency (NASDA) are preparing the automatic landing 
flight experiment (ALFLEX) as part of the H-2 orbiting plane (HOPE) 
program. (HOPE, an unmanned space plane, is to be launched by an H-2 
rocket in 1999.) The ALFLEX experimental plane is now in the design 
phase and its maiden flight is scheduled for fiscal year 1995. The 
plane's developers have been conducting ground effect tests at the 
Gust Wind Tunnel in Chofu Airfield Branch since June 1993, in order 
to assess the plane's aerodynamic behavior during high-speed landing 
and at high angles of attack during flare. 

   GRAPHIC: Color Drawing 

   CAPTION: ALFLEX experimental plane 

   GRAPHIC: Line Drawing 

   CAPTION: ALFLEX experiment 

   According to a report in KOGIKEN NYUSU (Sep 93), engineers are 
using rapid prototyping techniques to construct wind tunnel models 
out of photosetting resin using data generated with three- 
dimensional computer-aided design.  Using off-the-shelf technology 
developed for industrial robots,  NAL has built a six-degree-of- 
freedom robot with a 150-kilogram load capacity that functions as a 
support structure and positioning system for the wind tunnel test 
models. The ALFLEX test model is attached to the sting at the tip of 
the robot arm, allowing adjustments in angle of attack, yaw, and 
roll. Variation in the positioning of the models is less than 0.1 
millimeter and variation in the re-creation of positions is 0.5 
millimeter. 

   GRAPHIC: Line Drawing 

   CAPTION: ALFLEX wind tunnel test model 

   During the wind tunnel ground effect tests, researchers took 10 
measurements of variation in lift and drag after making incremental 
changes in the model's altitude relative to a plate simulating the 
ground. In the dynamic test,  measurements were made while the model 
was being moved continuously from the highest altitude to the lowest 
altitude (KOGIKEN NYUSU Sep  93; NATIONAL AEROSPACE LABORATORY 1993- 
1994 Oct 93). 

   Junko A. 733-6346 

      JAPAN: NEC DEVELOPS SEMICONDUCTOR LASER WITH LOW OPERATING 
CURRENT 

   Nippon Electric Co., Ltd. (NEC) has developed a new type of 
semiconductor laser that begins to emit infrared radiation when 
stimulated by an electric current of 190 microamperes, according to 
a report in NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN (5 Jan 94). This amperage--the 
world's lowest operating current--is reported to be less than one 
tenth the current used by conventional semiconductor lasers and NEC 
expects it to lead to a large reduction in electric power 
consumption by high-speed optoelectric integrated circuit devices 
used in optical communications and optical computers. 

   The NEC laser is a "sandwich" of crystalline film layers stacked 
on a substrate by molecular beam epitaxy. Infrared radiation with a 
wavelength of 1 micron generated in the optically active middle 
layer is emitted from the top surface of the laser in a direction 
perpendicular to the substrate instead of horizontally from the side 
of the laser, as is the case with conventional semiconductor lasers. 
Unlike the latter, the NEC laser is easily focused and can be 
integrated with optoelectronic devices, in a fashion analagous to an 
ordinary transistor. 

   In experiments the NEC laser began to emit radiation when the 
injection current reached 190 microamperes.  When the current was 
raised to 2 milliamperes, optical output power reached 50 
microwatts. The NEC researchers kept radiation loss to a minimum by 
making the thickness of the active layer equal to the radiation 
wavelength. The laser is limited to pulsed emission operation, but 
NEC intends to develop a method to reduce the laser element's 
resistance in order to make it suitable for continuous emission. 

   John H. 733-6341 

   JAPAN: QUANTUM BOX LASER 

   The Tokyo Institute of Technology has conducted experiments at 
-196 degrees C on a quantum box laser that generates pulses of 
infrared radiation at a wavelength of 1.3 microns and requires only 
1.3 amperes of current for oscillation. The laser element consists 
of a plane-surface indium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) film with many 
microscopic particles of InGaAs arranged in a grid pattern and 
embedded in the film. The particles are 70 nanometers apart and each 
is 30 nanometers in diameter and 12 nanometers thick. The InGaAs- 
film laser element is sandwiched between insulating layers of indium 
phosphide. Unlike electrons in the thin-film layers of conventional 
semiconductor lasers, electrons confined in the point-like particle 
boxes of the new laser cannot move in any dimension, so they can 
emit radiation with virtually no waste, according to the 
researchers. 

   After development is complete the laser is expected to perform at 
room temperature.  Researchers believe the ultrahigh radiation 
efficiency will make it possible to operate it using only a few 
tenths of the electric power required by conventional 
semiconductors. The institute expects that the new laser will be 
used in optical communications and optical computers because it 
consumes little power and generates little heat, even when several 
lasers are grouped together (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 19 Nov 93). 

   John H. 733-6341 

   FRANCE: RESEARCH ON LOW-TEMPERATURE SUPERCONDUCTIVITY 

   Two groups of French researchers are focusing their research and 
development efforts on low-temperature superconductors that operate 
at temperatures between -63 degrees C and 7 degrees C. For example, 
researchers at the Paris School for Advanced Physics and Industrial 
Chemistry have developed semiconductors that exhibit 
superconductivity at -23 degrees C, according to IL SOLE-24 ORE (11 
Jan 94). The semiconductor is composed of five to 10 layers of 
copper oxide produced using molecular beam epitaxy deposition 
techniques at low temperatures.  Possible applications are in 
electronics and computers. 

   In related research, a team from two National Scientific Research 
Center (CNRS) laboratories in  Grenoble--the  Center for Research on 
Very Low Temperatures and the Crystallography Laboratory--has 
observed superconductivity in mercury cuprate compounds at 
temperatures ranging from -63 degrees  C  to  7 degrees C, at normal 
pressure. According to AFP SCIENCES (23 Dec 93), this breakthrough 
follows the team's September 1993 experiment, which achieved 
superconductivity at 157 K and 245 kilobars of pressure, and which 
demonstrated that critical temperature rises at the rate of 0.05 K 
per kilobar as the atomic density of cuprates increases with 
increasing pressure. (Previous research  achieved the same result by 
replacing certain atoms in a compound with others.) The experimental 
samples were 10 cubic millimeters in size and consisted of mercury, 
barium, calcium, and copper oxide phases.  A dramatic drop in 
electrical resistance was observed in seven samples and diamagnetism 
was observed in 15 samples, at temperatures ranging from 190 K to 
280 K depending on the compound, with the highest critical 
temperature occurring in 1 percent of the sample. Future research 
will focus on identifying the structure of that portion of the 
sample. 

   Alexis M./Wendy P. (Brussels Bureau) 733-6339 

   RUSSIA: ANTICANCER, POTENTIAL AIDS DRUG PATENTED 

   In June 1993 Russian  officials granted four patents to a Russian 
chemist who developed Viturid, an immunostimulant said to be ten 
times more effective against second-  and third-stage cancers than 
current US and Russian therapies for the disease. After declining an 
offer from a US hospital to conduct clinical trials of the 
pharmaceutical in exchange for rights to its use, the scientist 
founded her own testing firm in the United States but later returned 
to Russia following the collapse of the former Soviet Union. 
Clinical trials in Russia showed that malignant tumors became benign 
and ultimately regressed completely following treatment with 
Viturid.  The drug's developer also claims it is effective in 
treating human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prior to the onset of 
immunodeficiency. Russian Health Minister Nechayev has authorized 
doctors to begin treating some unspecified diseases with Viturid in 
order to finance further testing (NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA 6 Jan 94). 

   Roberta D. 733-6331 

   JAPAN: SYNCHROTRON ORBITAL RADIATION FACILITY FOR CIRCUIT ETCHING 

   Mitsubishi Electric has completed construction of a synchrotron 
orbital radiation (SOR) facility designed for circuit etching of 
future-generation semiconductor chips.  It includes a linear 
accelerator, a synchrotron, and an accumulator ring for the storage 
of electrons after they have been accelerated to relativistic 
speeds. Superconducting electromagnets in the ring are used to 
deflect the electrons from their orbit, thereby causing them to emit 
the intense radiation required for the ultrafine processing of 
future-generation 256-megabit dynamic random access memory (DRAM) 
chips. The compact SOR facility, which cost several billion yen, is 
designed to supply radiation simultaneously to 20 processing units. 
The circumference of the electron beam orbit in the SOR ring is only 
9.2 meters, and the amount of liquid  helium required to cool the 
superconducting coils is reported to be only a "fraction" of the 
amount necessary for conventional SOR facilities. Mitsubishi, which 
is currently using the SOR facility for the development of 
semiconductors within the company, is also planning to market it 
externally (NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 18 Nov 93). 

   John H. 733-6341 

   SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

   JAPAN: SPACE INDUSTRY 

      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "New  Outlook for Space Industry" (JPRS- 
JST-94-009-L, 22 Feb 94) includes the views of MITI officials and 
corporate executives on the outlook for Japan's space industry. 

   Parker H. 733-6336 

   JAPAN: NATIONAL AEROSPACE LABORATORY 
      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "National Aerospace Laboratory (1993- 
1994)," (JPRS-JST-93-025, 22 Nov 93), provides information on NAL's 
budget, personnel, and current high-priority research projects. 

   Junko A. 733-6346 

   JAPAN: AIRCRAFT COMPUTATIONAL AERODYNAMICS 

      A  special  issue   of   the  JPRS  report  series  SCIENCE  &amp; 

TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "Selections  from  the  Proceedings of the 
9th NAL Symposium on Aircraft Computational Aerodynamics" (JPRS-JST- 
94-002, 7 Feb  94) presents research from the National Aerospace 
Laboratory. 

   Parker H. 733-6336 

   JAPAN: NUCLEAR POWER DATABASES 

      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled  "Nuclear Power Technology Database and 
Information Network Systems" (JPRS-JST-94-003-L, 18 Jan 94) provides 
selected articles from GENSHIRYOKU KOGYO, a monthly nuclear 
engineering magazine, on nuclear-related databases including 
ATOMNET, NUCLEN, NUCIS, SANTA, NICS, and DATA FREEWAY. 

   Junko A. 733-6346 

   GERMANY: BMFT SUBSIDIES 

   A translation of a report from the German Federal Ministry for 
Research and Technology (BMFT) entitled "Information Technology 
Subsidy Program 1993-1996" was recently published as a special issue 
of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY EUROPE/INTERNATIONAL 

(JPRS-EST-93-040, 1 Dec 93). The report outlines the principal areas 
targeted for support by the BMFT from 1993 to 1996 and R&amp;D promotion 

efforts sponsored by the European Union. 

   Tom A. 733-6327 

   JAPAN: S&amp;T BUDGETS 

      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "Fiscal Year 1993 Budgets for Science and 
Technology" (JPRS-JST-94-001, 24 Jan 94) presents the S&amp;T budgets 
for government agencies for fiscal year 1993 (April 1993 through 
March 1994). 

   Stephen M. 733-6343 

   JAPAN: PUBLIC LABORATORIES, RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS 

      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "National Laboratories and Public Research 
Organizations in Japan" (JPRS-JST-093-027, 13 Dec 93) provides 
information on Japan's government and quasi-public laboratories. 

   Stephen M.733-6343 

   FRANCE: STEALTH, FUSION RESEARCH 

   A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY/ 
EUROPE entitled "France:  CEA Discusses Stealth, Fusion Research" 
(JPRS EST-94-004-L, 2 Feb 94) features articles from CHOCS, a 
journal published by the French Atomic Energy Commission's 
Directorate of Military Applications. Topics covered include stealth 
materials, advanced ceramics, beryllium, polymer-based absorbant 
materials, uranium and uranium alloys, and tritium fusion 
technology. 

   Tom A. 733-6327 

   BRAZIL: TECHNOLOGICAL LAG EXPLAINED 

   A recent issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY 
EUROPE/INTERNATIONAL (JPRS-EST-93-042, 20 Dec 93)) entitled "Brazil: 
Causes and Dimensions of the Technological Lag," discusses the 
reasons Brazil has lagged behind other nations in science and 
technology. 

   Tom A. 733-6327 

   RUSSIA: ELECTRONIC INTELLIGENCE 

   A full translation of the 168-page book RADIOELEKTRONNAYA 
RAZVEDKA (2nd edition) published in Moscow in 1991 by Voyennoye 
Izdatelstvo is available in the final issue of the JPRS report 
series SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY/CENTRAL EURASIA:  ELECTRONICS AND 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (JPRS-UEE-93-008-L, 31 Dec 93).* The book 
describes the theory and practice of electronic intelligence and 
surveillance, including radar, laser, infrared, video,and 
photoreconnaissance, with emphasis on the scientific and technical 
aspects of the processes described. 

   Gary T. 733-6325 

   FOOTNOTE:  *Electronics  and electrical engineering translations 
and abstracts are now available in a new JPRS report series entitled 
SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY/CENTRAL EURASIA. 

   JAPAN: LOW-EMISSION VEHICLES 

      A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "Transport Ministry Study Committee Report 
on Popularizing Low-Pollution Vehicles" (JPRS-JST-94-003, 8 Feb 94) 
presents information on electric, methanol, natural gas, and other 
low-emission vehicles. 

   Stephen M. 733-6343 

   JAPAN: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGIES 

   A special issue of the JPRS series SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN 
entitled "Development of Fuel Cell Technologies" (JPRS-JST-94-001-L, 
7 Jan 94) presents information on government and corporate efforts 
in this field. 

   Ritsuko G. 733-6333 

   CHINA: NANOMATERIALS 

   An upcoming special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/CHINA entitled "Nanomaterials" (JPRS-CST-94-003,  3 Mar 
94) will feature a collection of articles and abstracts on Chinese 
nanomaterials research.  Topics covered include nanoscale direct 
etching on a graphite surface, ZnO nanocrystalline sensitive 
material, TiO(sub)2 ultrafine particles, CdS-glass 0-3-nanometer 
composites, ultrathin PMMA Langmuir-Blodgett x-ray high-resolution 
lithography films, and Cu(sub)2 nanocrystals. 

   Thomas T. 733-6342 

   FOREIGN MEDIA NOTES 

   CHINA: MAJOR NEW INTELLIGENT COMPUTER SYSTEM 
Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics has developed an 
intelligent workstation system with twice the performance of 
Mitsubishi's Fifth-Generation Computing Project PSI-II system. 
Technical specifications for the Chinese system are included. (FB PN 
93-460, 16 Dec 93) 

   Thomas T. 733-6342 

   GRAY LITERATURE 

      Technology Issues Division has acquired the conference 
proceedings and corporate reports listed below, copies of which are 
available upon request for a period of six months from the date of 
this PERSPECTIVES--contact Cathy G. (703) 482-4182. 

   All contractor requests must be received in writing, by letter 
(FBIS/CSG/PPD, GE47 OHB, Washington, DC 20505) or by fax ((703) 734- 
9408), on the sponsoring agency's letterhead and signed by the 
contracting officer technical representative. 

   Please use the number in parentheses at the end of the paragraph 
when requesting proceedings. 

   PROCEEDINGS 

   SIXTH INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON SUPERCONDUCTIVITY, held from 26 
to 29 October 1993 in Hiroshima, Japan. A 192-page volume of English 
abstracts includes 57 oral presentations and 304 poster 
presentations by members of industry, government, and academic 
institutions in Japan and other countries.  Topics include wire, 
tapes, bulk, thin films, flux pinning, systems applications, device 
applications, and  superconductivity-related  physics and chemistry. 
(v9no2-1) 

   JISSE-3, THIRD JAPAN INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF 
MATERIAL AND PROCESS ENGINEERING (SAMPE) SYMPOSIUM, hosted by the 
Japanese chapter of SAMPE from 7 to 10 December 1993 in Chiba, 
Japan. The proceedings contain over 400  papers in English from 20 
different countries and include a review  of the current status of 
advanced materials industry R&amp;D as well as problems associated with 

practical applications of advanced materials, including ceramic and 
metal matrix composites, polymer  and carbon/carbon composites, and 
intermetallic compounds. (v9no2-2) 

      EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON RAPIDLY QUENCHED AND 
METASTABLE MATERIALS, held 22-27 August 1993 in Sendai, Japan. The 
199-page proceedings contains abstracts in English by authors from 
government, industry, and academic institutions in Japan and other 
countries. Topics covered include the formation of amorphous and 
metastable phases;  stability and phase change;  structural 
characterization;  nanocrystalline, high-strength, and low-density 
materials;  quasi-crystals;  electrical, magnetic, mechanical, and 
chemical properties; advanced materials processing; and industrial 
applications. (v9no2-3) 

   CORPORATE REPORTS: BRAZIL 

   A 30-page English-language version of the 1992 annual report of 
the Brazilian telecommunications agency Embratel provides some 
technical information on telecommunications  services and installed 
capacities as well as the agency's financial results. 

   The 1992-93 "Telecom  Annual" contains a listing of companies, 
services, and products in the Brazilian telecommunications industry. 

      The  1993-94 "Information Science Today Annual," subtitled 
"Brazilian Computer Directory," provides information on the 200 
largest companies in the computer industry as well as on their 
hardware and software products. 
GIG/McGinnis/CL 15/2153Z MAR 

