BFN 

<F P=106> [By Antonio Martinez] </F>
  [Excerpt] Quito, 16 Apr (EFE) -- One million Amazonian 
Indians from Peru, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Guyana, Brazil, 
Bolivia, French Guiana, and Suriname have rejected the Brazilian 
Government's plan for radar surveillance of that jungle region 
because they believe that it is a plan to militarize and 
colonize the region. 
  In a communique issued in Quito this week, the Coordinating 
Board of Indian Organizations of the Amazon Basin (COICA) 
requests that the Brazilian Government spend the $1 billion 
budgeted for that project on the construction of hospitals, 
schools, and health centers. 
  Last week, Admiral Mario Cesar Flores, Brazilian secretary 
for strategic affairs, presented the plan for "the protection 
and exploitation of natural resources, the protection of Indian 
areas, and the control of illegal actions," with the help of 
radar surveillance of the Amazon region. Flores invited other 
Amazonian countries to join in this project. He said that 
Colombia and Venezuela had shown interest in it and specified 
that "it was a system for protection, not military defense," but 
the Indians do not believe this. 
  "We do not need the military to protect us. Thanks, anyway. 
What we need is to be left alone, recognition our territories, 
and the right to a large share of what is produced in them," the 
COICA communique states. "We know you intend to militarize an 
approximately 20-mile wide strip throughout thousands of 
kilometers of the jungle, much of which is Indian territory," 
the communique adds. "If you divide the $1 billion you will 
spend to `protect us' among the million Indians who live here, 
that will give us $1,000 per person," the communique points out. 
[passage omitted] 

