Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Russia and Cuba are restoring traditional trade and 
economic cooperation and intend to enhance it. 
  The Russian Ministry for Foreign Economic Relations told 
Interfax that the two states were to increase mutual deliveries 
of oil and sugar in 1994. Russia would export 4 Mn [million] 
tons of oil by the end of 1994 (instead of 2.5 Mn tons, the 
delivery of which was coordinated in late 1993) in exchange for 
2.5 Mn tons of cane sugar, exceeding the earlier expected volume 
of deliveries by 2.5 times. 
  According to Russian Foreign Economic Relations Minister 
Oleg 
Davydov, "Russia is very interested in importing Cuban sugar 
since it has big industrial capacities specially established for 
processing of cane sugar." 
  Russia and Cuba also intend to develop bilateral cooperation 
in other spheres. An International Russian-Cuban Trade Economic 
Association Roskuba was established last week in accordance with 
the inter-government agreement of December 24, 1993. The 
association includes more than 10 Russian state and commercial 
structures, for instance the joint stock companies 
Aeroflot--Russian Air Lines, Ingosstrakh, Vneshtreidinvest, 
Rosdetspetsprodukt, the state committee Rosvooruzhenie and the 
Russian Federation Trade Industrial Chamber. 
  The association's main purposes are to contribute to the 
development of trade, direct relations between enterprises and 
organizations, mutual utilization of industrial capacities and 
investment and to establishment of trans-national commercial, 
finance and industrial structures. 

