BFN 

  [Text] Moscow, May 24 (MTI) -- The protocol on returning 
to, and storing in, Russia the used fuel cartridges of the Paks 
nuclear power plant violates a Russian law on environmental 
protection, President Boris Yeltsin's adviser on environmental 
affairs said. 
  The protocol was signed during Russian Prime Minister Viktor 
Chernomyrdin's visit to Budapest early April. 
  The adviser, Aleksei Yablokov, chairman of the environmental 
interdepartmental committee of the Russian National Security 
Council, pressed for immediate talks with Hungary on the matter. 
  Meeting Hungarian journalists, Yablokov said that Clause 34 
in Paragraph 50 of Russia's law on environmental protection, 
approved two years ago, bars the delivery of any radioactive 
waste to Russia for the purpose of storage or recycling. 
  The law applies to Hungary but does not affect some other 
countries, for instance Finland or Bulgaria, which built 
Soviet-type nuclear power plants and agreed on returning the 
radioactive waste before the Russian law took effect. 
  "This is a rather complex problem. Radioactive pollution 
poses a particularly grave challenge in Russia. It became clear 
after decades of secrecy how polluted our country is. Unlawful 
importation of radiocative waste is a headache," Yablokov said. 
  On the protocol, the adviser saw two options. The related 
clause of the law could be amended -- a possible but lengthy 
procedure. Or Russia would accept the recycled waste, sealed in 
glass, being returned to Hungary. If Hungary were prepared to 
take the waste back this way, the protocol could be amended 
accordingly, he said. 
  Commenting on Chernomyrdin's latest remark that the protocol 
is not subject to approval by the Duma, Yablokov said the prime 
minsiter can ignore the Duma but it remains to be seen how long 
he can do so. "The prime minister will hardly openly confront 
the Duma because of nuclear waste," he said. 

