BFN 

  [Text] The Thai deputy prime minister confirms that 
Thailand is prepared to cooperate with the United States in 
narcotics suppression. 
  After a meeting with the visiting director of the U.S. Drug 
Enforcement Administration [DEA], Deputy Prime Minister Amnuai 
Wirawan said that there should be greater international 
cooperation in narcotics prevention and suppression than there 
currently is and cooperation should be carried out by all sides 
concerned. [begin recording] 
  Amnuai: There is little cooperation at both the 
national and international levels. I think that there is a need 
for greater collaboration in policy planning, manpower, and 
financial cooperation. Regarding Southeast Asia, the U.S. 
official said that this region is the production base that 
supplies about 60 percent of the heroin in the U.S. market. He 
expressed concern that this problem is intensifying. Thailand, 
however, is prepared to render cooperation. 
  In addition, he said that his country also would further 
cooperation with every other neighboring country, especially the 
countries which are major sources of narcotics production. This 
is because some countries are not able to solve the problems 
themselves. The policies to solve the narcotics problem and to 
develop the economy should be implemented concurrently. Citing 
the case of Thailand as an example, hill tribe people, 
villagers, or farmers are encouraged to convert their crops from 
narcotics plants to other crops provided they are able to earn 
sufficient incomes. [end recording] 

