Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Sergey Morgachev and Ilya Neyman: "The World </F>
Must Be Viewed From Above"; the first paragraph is an 
introduction and the last six paragraphs provide general 
information] 
  [Text] Images of the Earth's surface obtained by space 
monitoring, once of interest only to the military, have now 
become the object of an extremely large-scale business whose 
scope, according to a number of estimates, already exceeds a 
half-billion dollars. Monitoring data are valuable for 
organizations and enterprises engaged in exploration for and 
production of mineral resources, agriculture and the fishing 
industry. They are needed by all who are associated with 
ecological problems, prevention and elimination of the 
consequences of natural and man-induced catastrophes. 
  Space photographs, which "in color" are rather impressive, 
were on display at the International Exhibition "Oil and 
Gas-93," which ended yesterday in Moscow, including in displays 
of the Priroda and Soyuzkarta enterprises. The situation in the 
world market for these products is discussed by our reviewer 
Sergey Morgachev and our expert Ilya Neyman. 
<H5>  Photograph Business; Four Points of Reference </H5>
  Four factors can ensure success in this specific market: low 
costs for the launching and production of satellites, high 
quality of the images themselves (equipment resolution and a 
number of other special characteristics), high quality of 
equipment and technologies for the interpretation and processing 
of images and, finally, the presence throughout the world of a 
well-developed network of points for the reception and 
processing of telemetric information (this ensures routineness 
in the client receiving the desired product). In the first and 
second links of this chain Russia has completely competitive 
positions, in the third the situation is uncertain, but in the 
fourth Russian enterprises for the time being have not moved 
from the starting line. 
  Production costs and the cost of launching a payload into 
orbit in Russia, as is well known, are an order of magnitude 
below the world level. If one speaks of the equipment carried on 
satellites operated by civilian organizations, Russian 
technology has superior characteristics (see table). With 
respect to military satellites for visible reconnaissance, there 
are no precise data on Russian capabilities (the American 
photosatellite KN-11 ensures a resolution up to 15 cm, whereas 
the Lacrosse radar satellite ensures a resolution up to 60 cm). 
However, here it is not the technical level in general which is 
important, but the characteristics specifically of that 
equipment which is used for commercial purposes. According to 
the specifications of the Russian government (August 1992), for 
commercial purposes it is possible to use equipment with a 
resolution up to 2 m, which unquestionably will provide Russian 
users of this technology advantages in technical 
competitiveness. However, it is unknown how long this advantage 
will persist: in the United States the possibility of 
declassifying photographs with a resolution up to 1 m is already 
being considered. 
  The general backwardness of Russia in computer technology is 
greatly limiting its capabilities for creating image processing 
outfits. If one speaks of the processing of optical information, 
for the time being there are no alternatives to the use of 
imported equipment. The situation is more encouraging with 
respect to the processing of radar information: at the NPO ELAS 
a highly productive processor has been developed and already is 
in use in which a number of original technological solutions 
have been introduced. 
  The only Russian foreign terminal for the reception of 
satellite information is located, evidently, at the Military 
Technical Reconnaissance Center operated at Lourdes (Cuba), but 
it is only possible to make proposals on the incorporation of 
this terminal into commercial operations. 
<H5>  A Foreign Network Must Be Established </H5>
  Insofar as is known, in Russia there are now four 
organizations engaged in the processing and commercialization of 
satellite images: the Almaz enterprise (founder -- NPO 
Mashinostroyeniye, Reutov, Moscow Oblast), working with radar 
images from the Almaz station; the Sovinformsputnik enterprise, 
working with photographs from military satellites (founders -- 
Central Special Design Bureau, Samara, and two other government 
agencies which the authors promised not to mention); the AO 
Soyuzkarta (founders -- private individuals; this organization 
inherited the functions of the former VO of the same name) and 
the State Center Priroda as part of the Russian Federal Service 
for Geodesy and Cartography. Priroda and Soyuzkarta are 
commercializing photographs of satellites of the Resurs-F series. 
  The scales of activity of these enterprises constitute a 
commercial secret, but it can be assumed that real business for 
the time being is going on only at the latter two organizations, 
long concerned with this business and having the experience and 
the clientele. Taken together, with an optimistic estimate, 
their annual sales may now be about a half-million dollars. A 
primary product (copies of photographs) and its derivatives 
(photoplans, photomaps) are produced. As a rule reference is to 
a low degree of processing, although there also are orders for 
preparation of a complex product. The activity of 
Sovinformsputnik and Almaza for the most part is of a publicity 
nature and evidently their transactions do not exceed the limits 
of tens of thousands of dollars annually. In general, however, 
the share of Russia in the primary world market for satellite 
photographs and their derivatives in any case does not exceed 
1%. 

<FIG ID=JPRS-USP-001C-17A>           World (primary, commercial) </FIG>




  There are several reasons for this. First of all -- the 
stiff 
opposition of American and West European competitors who control 
the market; this applies to both the sale of the "raw product" 
and to a still greater degree to the processed product (Russian 
enterprises began to work in the Western market only several 
years ago -- earlier their activity was restricted to the 
socialist countries). Second, the incompatibility of processing 
standards, making the sale of the processed material very 
difficult. Finally, the problem of a foreign network. 
Accordingly, the approach to success lies in the broad use of 
imported interpretation equipment and the adaptation of Russian 
analogues to Western technologies, agreement with Western 
partners on the organization of a unified network of surface 
complexes and changeover to work with information in digital 
form. And, finally, simply through stubborn marketing. This 
activity scarcely will bring success in Western Europe, where 
the influence of France and the United States is too great; the 
most likely chance is to exploit old and new connections in the 
developing countries. If Russia has pretenses to broadening its 
share in the world market, it must also incorporate the strictly 
technical trends in this sphere -- for example, the use of 
systems of light artificial earth satellites launched by light 
inexpensive boosters. Such a project is now being developed by 
the Alenia Spacio Company (Italy) and in Russia by the NPO 
Energiya. 


Commercial Space Monitoring Systems 

System              Country, general        Resolution       Average price 
                    contractor                               per photograph 
                                                             (image 1 
                                                             km[.sup]2[/] ($) 
                                                             Realized 
                                                             projects 

Resurs-F (o)        Russia, TsSKB           5-8              1500/0.50 

Military systems    Russia, TsSKB           2                3000/2.00 
(o) 

Almaz (r)           Russia, NPO             10-15            1000-2000/no 
                    Mashinostroyeniya                        data 

LANDSAT (o)         United States, no       30               3600/0.10 
                    data 

SPOT (o)            France, Matra           10-20            2000/0.55 

ERS-1 (r)           ESA, Dornier            25               no data New 
                                                             projects of the 
                                                             1990's 

Almaz 1-V (o,r)     Russia, NPO             2.5, 5-7         no data 
                    Mashinostroyeniya 

Resurs-Spektr       Russia, TsSKB           10               no data 
(o,r) 

Resurs O-1 (o)      Russia, VNIIEM          25               no data 

SOEK (o,r)          Russia, NPO Energiya    2, 5             no data 

RADARSAT (r)        Canada, SPAR            less than 10     no data 

LANDSAT-6 (o)       USA, AIRSPACE           5-15             no data 
                                                             Notations: (o) 
                                                             -- optical, (r) 
                                                             -- radar. 


  The optical equipment for satellite monitoring systems is 
produced in Russia by the Krasnogorsk Mechanical Plant (Moscow 
Oblast); development work is carried out by the State Optical 
Institute (St. Petersburg). The developers and producers of 
radar apparatus are the NPO Vega, Scientific Research Institute 
for Precise Instruments, Special Design Bureau EI (Moscow) and 
the NPO ELAS (Zelenograd). 
  What is Space Monitoring? It includes exploration for 
minerals; monitoring of the state of agricultural areas, 
forests, ice, the world ocean and its resources, and in general 
the state of ecosystems; warning of and elimination of the 
consequences of natural misfortunes (drought, floods, fires) and 
industrial catastrophes (tanker accidents, toxic effluent, etc.). 
  Monitoring is carried out using optical and radar apparatus 
aboard space vehicles. The information is "dumped" through radio 
channels to surface telemetric complexes or in the form of a 
film, passes through a greater or lesser number of computer 
processing stages and is trasmitted to the client, usually along 
communication lines in digital form. 
<H5>  Who's Who in the World Market </H5>
  The world market for space monitoring products is, according 
to approximate estimates, 50-100 million dollars annually. This 
is the primary market, that is, sales of companies which have 
access to the initial information from satellites. Their 
products pass through several processing stages and then the 
price may increase in comparison with the initial cost by an 
order of magnitude or more. As a result, according to estimates, 
the market attains 500 million dollars, although here there is 
evidently repeated recalculations involved. 
  In the market the leader is the French company Spotimage, 
operating the SPOT satellites. In contrast to the LANDSAT and 
ERS projects (see diagram), to a considerable degree oriented on 
the finalizing of technologies, the initiators of the SPOT 
project from the very beginning took measures for active 
advertising, establishment of a strong information-technical and 
commercial network. 
  If one reckons the final costs and revenues in this 
business, 
it is unprofitable: the expenditures on the development of 
satellites, their launching and operation, are too great. But 
the government (both in the United States, in France and in 
Russia), pursuing strategic goals, is assuming a large part of 
these expenses, which makes possible profitable operation of the 
commercial firms. 

