BFN 

  [Text] Washington, June 19 (XINHUA) -- A new calculation by 
the World Bank has raised China's per capita gross national 
product by one fourth to 470 U.S. dollars. 
  This is the first sharp rise in more than a dozen years, 
when 
the bank has been putting China's per capita GNP at around 370 
to 380 dollars. 
  China used to be the 11th largest economy. But in "world 
development indicators" released today, China's GNP ranks the 
eighth, after the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Britain 
and Canada. 
  With a total population of 1.16 billion, China is now the 
28th poorest country in the world, according to the World Bank's 
updated list. 
  Since 1980 when China joined the World Bank, there has been 
little change in the calculation of China's GNP. "World Bank 
Atlas" published in December put China's per capita wealth at 
380 dollars. 
  According to sources from the China executive director's 
office, the bank started to reevaluate China's GNP early this 
year. 
  The change of methodology, bank officials said in 
interviews, 
is aimed at more accurately reflecting the changing nature of 
China's economy, which grew 12.8 percent and 13 percent in 1992 
and 1993 respectively. 
  Since 1981, the bank has supported 140 projects in China, 
with cumulative lending at 18.6 billion dollars. China borrowed 
3.2 billion dollars from the bank in 1993, making it the bank's 
largest borrower. 

