Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Scha: "Controls for Robots"] </F>
  [Text] Dortmund--Under the direction of Eckhard Freund and 
in collaboration with the Action Association of NRW [North 
Rhine-Westphalia] Aerospace-Oriented Companies, the Institute 
for Robot Research (IRF) of the University of Dortmund has 
developed a new control concept for automated systems and robots 
by employing "virtual presence" methods. The control concept is 
supposed to serve to make robot and automation systems 
universally usable. For this purpose, the working environment of 
the robot is graphically reproduced on the computer screen and 
the operator can carry out his assignment through the computer 
graphics with the aid of a so-called data glove. The IRF control 
technology then sees to it that the activities are carried out 
in the "virtual world" of the computer graphics--the 
transporting of objects, for example--are replicated by the 
robots. Conceivable applications with a commercial background in 
the space industry are, for example, the inspection and repair 
of costly geostationary communications satellites. Numerous 
applications for this "virtual presence" technology are also 
obvious outside the space industry, in the field of medicine, 
for example, to provide support for operations. 

