Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, January 29 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Premier Li 
Peng urged today accelerated development of science and 
technology without neglecting deepening reform in this sector. 
  In a letter of congratulations on today's close of a 
successful working conference held here by the Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Li Peng also made an early happy New Year call to 
all scientists and technicians throughout the country. 
  Li said in the letter that whether China could realize its 
socialist modernization depends largely on the development of 
science and technology. 
  He called on the vast number of scientists and technicians 
to 
boost the development of science and technology, based on the 
actual Chinese situation and in line with the tendency of the 
development of the world's science and technology and to make 
greater contributions to the sustained, rapid and healthy 
development of the economy. 
  The five-day conference was held to outline the work of the 
Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1994. President Zhou Guangzhao 
of the Academy said at today's closing meeting that one of the 
major tasks of his Academy is to nurture qualified scientists 
and technicians. 
  He also proposed a long-term development strategy for the 
Academy. 
  At the conference participants exchanged experiences and 
analyzed the current new situation of reform in the sector of 
science and technology. 
  Researchers and departments who have scored outstanding 
achievements in the scientific field in 1993 were awarded prizes 
during the conference. 

