BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Ronaldo Brasilense] </F>
  [Text] The SCD-1 (Data-Gathering Satellite), the first 
Brazilian satellite made with national technology by experts 
from the National Institute of Space Research (INPE) in Sao Jose 
dos Campos, Sao Paulo, has caused a more-than-agreeable 
surprise. Launched in Cape Canaveral, United States, on 9 
February 1993, the satellite should have had a one-year useful 
life. But inexplicably, it continues sending meteorological data 
to the INPE, which expects the SCD-1 to have another year of 
useful life. 
  "We are agreeably surprised," said INPE acting director 
Volker Kirchhoff when he reported the accomplishment of the 
SCD-1, which opens the way for the launching of the SCD-2 in 
1995 and, in the future, the SCD-3, which is a communications 
satellite approved by the Brazilian Commission for Space 
Activities (Cobae). The SCD-1 has transmitted reliable 
environmental data on the Amazon region, allowing INPE experts 
to develop meteorological works on the region. 
  Ever since it was launched a year and two months ago, the 
SCD-1 has transmitted daily to the INPE station in Cuiaba, Mato 
Grosso, environmental data being monitored in Cachoeira 
Paulista, Sao Paulo. The first Brazilian satellite is in orbit 
700 kms above the earth and gathers information on atmospheric 
pollution by carbon monoxide and the destruction of the ozone 
layer by CFC gases, besides monitoring the direction and 
intensity of climatic phenomena and the air's relative humidity. 
  The SCD-1's importance is that it adds environmental data to 
that provided by the U.S. Landsat and Nooa-11 satellites, which 
monitor burning lands in the Amazon region, the Achilles heel of 
Brazilian environmental policy. "Our expectation is that the 
SCD-1 will last one more year," Volker Kirchhoff said, recalling 
that the success of the first completely national satellite 
opens the skies for the Brazilian Space Program. 

