Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Tony O'Brien and Jerome Reilly: "Minister Warns </F>
on Toxic Waste"] 
  [Text] Twenty five thousand tonnes of highly dangerous 
poisonous waste is being illegally dumped every year in this 
country -- and nobody knows where it is going, a government 
minister admitted yesterday. 
  Environment Minister Michael Smith said the country had to 
face up to the huge increase in the amount of toxic waste being 
produced and see how this could both be reduced and disposed of. 
  Ireland is now producing some 70,000 tonnes of officially 
classified toxic waste every year. And while 10,000 tonnes of 
this is disposed of abroad, and more incinerated by individual 
companies, thousands of tonnes remain unaccounted for. 
  "We have to presume that some 25,000 tonnes of poisonous 
waste is being dumped on ordinary landfill sites and other 
locations," said Mr Smith, who added: "In truth, we don't know 
where these highly dangerous substances are ending up." 
  Pointing out that Dublin produced more toxic waste than the 
rest of the country, Mr Smith again hinted that a national waste 
incinerator may be the preferred option. 
  But he stressed that no decision has yet been made on the 
issue. "I have already stated my view that incineration should 
not be excluded as a viable disposal option," he said, adding 
that new proposals will follow a major conference on hazardous 
waste being organised in January. 
  "The toxic waste being dumped is a hazard for people living 
here now and for future generations," he said. Another problem 
was the disposal of around 10,000 tonnes of clinical waste being 
incinerated in hospitals. 
  Decisions would have to be made. "We are producing more and 
more waste each year but we don't want landfill sites and we 
don't want incinerators but we have to face up to the problem 
and early next year we will make a decision one way or another." 

