BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Seven O'Clock Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] Prosecutor General de Greiff faces a difficult 
situation after a group of U.S. congressmen rejected his 
participation as a speaker at a World Bank conference. 
Interestingly enough, several congressmen changed their minds 
following an intense diplomatic effort by de Greiff. 
  Despite his temper and nature, lately de Greiff has been 
tapping his diplomatic skills. First, he used his new talent on 
U.S. Senator John Kerry, who had criticized him harshly. De 
Greiff's telephone conversations with Kerry 15 days ago had such 
an effect that Kerry is considering coming to Colombia at de 
Greiff's invitation for a closer examination of the fight 
against the drug cartels. However, de Greiff went even further. 
De Greiff began contacts with U.S. judicial authorities, 
including U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno, whose reaction to de 
Greiff's endeavor is not yet known. 
  The "Seven O'Clock Newscast" learned de Greiff has claimed 
that his views regarding drug legalization are purely academic 
and do not jeopardize the Colombian Government's policies. 
However, the Prosecutor General's Office and the government 
expect, as proof of its good relations with the U.S. Government, 
the prompt dispatch of evidence linking confessed 
drug-trafficker Ivan Urdinola with a case being currently 
reviewed in a Florida court implicating him with the trafficking 
of heroin in the United States. Twelve persons have been 
detained in Colombia and the United States in connection with 
this case. 

