BFN 

  [Text] Ukraine will join the Russian-U.S. freedom space 
station project, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Valeriy Shmarov 
said. 
  Shmarov headed a delegation, which had been to the United 
States to discuss Ukraine's joining the treaty on the 
nonproliferation of nuclear technologies, the implementation of 
the START II treaty by the former Soviet Republic, and its 
cooperation with America in nuclear power engineering and 
defense convesrsion. 
  Shmarov said a joint memorandum issued during the visit and 
on the American side signed by Vice President Al Gore "offers 
Ukraine broad opportunities for research and operations in the 
field of space rockets." 
  He said a Ukrainian-U.S. statement had also been released 
reflecting all aspects of implementation of the trrilateral 
statememnt by the Russian, Ukrainian and U.S. presidents on 
Ukraine's nuclear disarmanent. Both sides expressed 
satisfaction with the progress made in the work, Shmarov said. 
  He said Ukraine wpould shortly launch construction of 
facilities to produce fuel for its nuclear power plants on the 
basis of a technology to be provided by the American company 
Westinghouse. 
  The head of Ukraine's National Space Agency, Vladimir 
Gorbulin, said at the same news conference that Kiev "will 
become an equal partner in space cooperation." He said Ukraine 
in July would send a delegation to the Unted States representing 
all sectors of the country's space industry. 

