BFN 

<F P=106> [By reporter Ou Zhengtao (0260 2973 3447)] </F>
  [Excerpt] Hefei, 25 April (XINHUA) -- Since its opening to 
scientists at home and abroad in April 1993, the State 
Synchotron Radiation Laboratory of the Chinese University of 
Science and Technology has provided internationally advanced 
scientific research and experiment conditions to many 
researchers from scientific research institutes in China. So 
far, the laboratory has carried out more than 120 research 
projects for 45 research institutes and universities across the 
country. It has achieved gratifying results in the fields of 
physics, chemistry, biological science, and material science. 
  Synchotron radiation is a kind of extremely powerful 
electromagnetic radiation produced by high-energy electrons that 
move tangentially in a loop-type accelerator at near 
light-speed. Equipped with such excellent characteristics as 
great intensity, high luminance, continuous frequency spectrum, 
good polarization, pulse-time structure, and pure vacuum 
environment, synchotron radiation has been widely applied in 
basic subjects such as physics, chemistry, biology, medical 
science, surface science, and measurement science as well as in 
technical fields such as microprocessing and super integrated 
circuits. Being an advanced scientific and research means, it 
plays a very active role in the frontier scientific and 
technological field. 
  After over a year of operation and trial runs, this 
synchotron radiation installation, the only one in China, 
succeeded for the first time in operating with high luminance. 
The synchotron radiation source can produce light around the 
clock, with over 6,000 operation hours a year. It can provide 
more than 3,600 hours of experimental time. Five experimental 
stations of photochemistry, photoelectron, soft X-ray micrology, 
X-ray photoetching, and chronospectroscopy have been put into 
operation. [passage omitted] 

