Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] Earth observation by satellite was started in 1978, 
when Earth Observation Center (EOC) of the NASDA (National Space 
Development Agency of Japan) was set up in Saitama Prefecture, 
just north of Tokyo, and started receiving data from the 
American LANDSAT satellite. The history of Japanese remote 
sensing had really begun. 
  In 1987, the reception of data from the Japanese Marine 
Observation Satellite (MOS-1) was started. This was followed by 
reception of data from the French earth observation satellite 
SPOT in 1988, from MOS-1b in 1990, from the European Remote 
Sensing Satellite (ERS-1) in 1991 and from the Japanese Earth 
Resources Satellite (JERS-1) in 1992. 
  At present, data are being regularly received from six 
Japanese and foreign earth observation satellites at EOC. The 
earth observing data is steadily increasing and becoming 
completely. [sentence as printed] 
  Earth observation by satellites has been steadily promoted, 
because the observation by satellites is better than other 
observation methods to cover wide area of earth and make regular 
observations in a long term. Satellite observing data have been 
mainly used to survey land use, farm crops and to monitor active 
volcanoes in disaster prevention. 
  In addition to the above, Japan, Europe and the United 
States 
have been promoting projects to use satellites to monitor the 
conditions of the global environment as the interest in earth 
environment problems has mounted in recent years. 
  Under these circumstances, Japan is operating or is 
developing the following earth observation satellites: 
<H5>  Marine Observation Satellite MOS-1/1b </H5>
  MOS-1 whose main object is the global marine observation 
carries three observation sensors: a Multi-Spectral Electric 
Self-Scanning Radiometer (MESSR) for detailed observation of 
land and ocean areas, a Visible and Thermal Infrared Radiometer 
(VTIR) to monitor clouds and sea surface temperature, and a 
Microwave Scanning Radiometer (MSR) to observe the sea surface, 
moisture in the atmosphere, ice on the sea, snowfall, etc. 
  MOS-1 was launched into Sun Synchronous Subrecurrent at an 
altitude of about 900 kilometers in February 1987, and MOS-1b, 
which is the successor of MOS-1, was launched in February 1990. 
Both MOS-1 and MOS-1b are still in operation and are sending 
large volumes of precious earth observation data. 
<H5>  Japanese Earth Resources Satellite, JERS-1 </H5>
  JERS-1 is principally designed to survey resources, and it 
also conducts earth observations to help land surveying, 
agriculture, fisheries, preservation of the environment, 
disaster prevention and coastal watching. This satellite also 
has the mission to develop a high-level earth observation system. 
  JERS-1 carries Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) which is 
capable of making a detailed observation of land surfaces, 
regardless of day or night or weather condition, by transmitting 
microwaves and detecting the reflection on the land surface, 
functioning in a similar way to radar on the plane. JERS-1 is 
also equipped with Optical Sensor (OPS) which have the capacity 
to survey resources and obtain marine information with an 
improved version of MESSR on MOS-1 and also make precise, 
three-dimensional shapes of land surface by combining the data 
obtained with two kinds of functions. 
  This satellite was launched in February 1992 into Sun 
Synchronous Subrecurrent at an altitude of approximately 570 
kilometers and is now gathering data which is useful mainly in 
the surveying of natural resources. 
<H5>  Advanced Earth Observing Satellite, ADEOS </H5>
  ADEOS is designed to make an international contribution by 
monitoring global-scale changes in conditions of the earth 
environment. ADEOS is also designed to develop the platform 
technology necessary for the development of future satellites 
and relaying of data obtained by earth observation satellites. 
  ADEOS is to be mounted with the Ocean Color and Temperature 
Scanner (OCTS) which has the ability to monitor the basic 
productivity of the ocean on a global scale and ocean currents 
by observing ocean color and temperature at high frequency and 
with high sensitivity. OCTS uses numerical observation 
wavelengths in the visible as well as infrared ranges. 
  It is also being planned that ADEOS will carry an Advanced 
Visible and Near-Infrared Radiometer (AVNIR) which will 
contribute to environment monitoring by acquiring data on plants 
and ground conditions through observation mainly of land and 
coastal areas. The observation is to be made by using 
observation wavelengths in the visible and near-infrared ranges 
and with high definition. 
  The satellite is also to carry five sensors, two of which 
are 
from Japan, two from America and one from France. These sensors 
will observe wind direction above the ocean, ozone volume and 
the greenhouse effect gases of earth environmental problems. 
  This satellite is scheduled to be launched into Sun 
Synchronous Subrecurrent at an altitude of about 800 kilometers 
in the winter of 1996. 
<H5>  Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission, TRMM </H5>
  The aim of TRMM is to obtain data by satellite on the 
intensity and location of rainfall in tropical areas. Such data 
are important to research the environment changes and global 
climate changes. 
  This satellite is the Japan-U.S. cooperation project. 
Japan's 
NASDA will be in charge of developing a rainfall observing radar 
system and launching the satellite, using an H-II rocket, while 
the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
will develop the satellite bus and observation equipment other 
than the rainfall radar and operate the satellite, using a data 
relaying satellite. 
  Japan is already developing a Precipitation Radar (PR) to 
observe the three-dimensional conditions of tropical rainfall, 
the rain's vertical condition in particular, and the amount of 
rainfall on the ocean and the land. Such data are important for 
investigating the energy cycle of the tropical regions that 
seriously effect the global environmental change. 
  To be developed in the United States are the TRMM Microwave 
Imager (TMI) to be operated jointly with the PR, Clouds and the 
Earth's Radiant Energy System (CERES) and a Lightning Imaging 
Sensor (LIS). These sensors will all be mounted on the satellite. 
  TRMM is scheduled to be launched into Circular Orbit at an 
altitude of approximately 350 kilometers in the summer of 1997. 
<H5>  Geostationary Meteorological Satellite GMS Series </H5>
  The Geostationary Meteorological Satellite, GMS, Series are 
earth observation satellites for use in Japan's weather 
prediction and other climate research. The first GMS was 
launched in 1977, followed by the GMS-2 in 1981, the GMS-3 in 
1983 and the GMS-4 in 1989. They have been in operation for 
weather prediction and other climate researches. 
  The GMS is first launched into geostationary orbits and is 
spun at 100 times per minute for stability. The satellite scans 
the earth surface from west to east using this rotation. 
  GMS-5 is scheduled to be launched in the summer of 1994 for 
succeeding to the GMS-4 mission. 
  Japan's earth observation satellites have thus been used 
across a broad range, including weather prediction and disaster 
prevention, fields closely related to daily life, and earth 
environment monitoring, a matter of importance to all mankind. 
  The Science and Technology Agency has just completed the 
reports of the long-term scenario of Japan's earth observation 
satellites until 2010, which are including the satellites and 
ground systems developing plan, and the use of earth observation 
satellites for purposes other than global environment 
observation. 
  Based on this report, Japan is expected to promote the use 
of 
satellite data that have not been fully utilized yet and 
continue to develop new earth observation satellites in 
coordination with the earth observation satellite projects of 
foreign countries. 

