Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Andrew Kouskouris: "Solid Waste Recycling in </F>
Greece"] 
  [Text] According to Council Directive 85/339/EEC of 27 June 
1985, on containers of liquids for human consumption, the 
government issued the bi-ministerial decision No. 
31784/954/8.4.90/251/B' on the types of packaging of liquid 
foods. There is also the Directive 91/156/EEC which covers some 
aspects of recycling -- reducing the wastes. 
<H5>  Composition of Refuse </H5>
  In 1984-85 the composition of the refuse in the Greater 
Athens Area was: 
  -- Organic: 58.5 percent 
  -- Paper, Cardboard: 19.2 percent 
  -- Plastics: 7 percent 
  -- Glass: 2.5 percent 
  -- Metal: 3.75 percent 
  -- Rubber, Wood: 3.5 percent 
  -- Inert: 1 percent 
  -- Rest: 4.55 percent 
  -- Total: 100 percent 
  Until recently, the average composition of waste in Greece 
was difficult to measure, however, new measurements in some 
areas shows that Greece is slowly, very slowly, approaching the 
composition of the middle European Consumer, especially as the 
organic fraction is reduced and the packaging fraction is 
increased. 
<H5>  Recycling </H5>
  Recycling is operating through source separation systems and 
the results in Greece for 1991 were: paper, 32 percent; glass, 
20 percent; aluminium, 26 percent. 
<H5>  Recycling Projects </H5>

  1. During the period 1990 till 1992, the Ministry of the 
Environment directed a number of awareness programmes aimed at 
the elementary and secondary schools (approximately 10,000 
students in all). The total quantity of source separated 
materials was as follows: 
  -- Paper: 110 tons 
  -- Aluminium: 10 tons 
  -- Glass: 2 tons 
  [Box] Consumption of Aluminium Cans as a Percentage of Total 
Recycling [box head] 
  -- 1985: 130 million cans (8 percent) 
  -- 1986: 230 million cans (11 percent) 
  -- 1987: 280 million cans (13 percent) 
  -- 1988: 430 million cans (17 percent) 
  -- 1989: 480 million cans (21 percent) 
  -- 1990: 500 million cans (25 percent) 
  -- 1991: 650-700 million cans (26 percent) 
  (Source: Report from the Ministry of Environment -- 85/389 
EEC. Hellenic Aluminium Company) [box end] 
  2. Seventy-five municipalities and communities have started 
source separation programs mainly for paper and aluminium cans. 
The Municipality of New Psyhiko was the first to begin a source 
separation program. Presently, New Psyhiko Municipality has 
started a source separation program and has constructed and 
currently operates a park for ecology including a train where 
schoolboys give aluminium cans to have a ride. The population 
of New Psyhiko's Municipality is only 14,000 inhabitants. 
  3. In the biggest landfill in Greece, and one of the biggest 
in Europe which is located in Athens, which has a capacity of 
3,500 tons per day, has been constructed and is managed by the 
Association of Municipalities and Communities in the Attika 
Region; a pilot plant for recovery of refuse (Refuse derived 
fuel (RDF) and compost) with a capacity of 2.5 tons per hour. 
  The above mentioned Association has planned and is currently 
purchasing equipment to set up a source separation project for 
paper in 13 municipalities with a total population 500,000 
inhabitants. 
  There is a study for the management of small hazardous 
wastes 
into the municipal wastes. It will be finished within the near 
future. 
  4. A compost plant is being built in the Municipality of 
Kalamata which will have a capacity of 80 tonnes per day plus 10 
tons of sludge. It will be ready next year. 
  5. The private sector which is partially represented by the 
Hellenic Company of Recovery and Recycling (51 companies which 
produce and distribute packaging products) is due to begin this 
year with a full-scale pilot program for source separation in 
all packaging materials. 
  6. There are four MEDSPA waste management programmes that 
cover recycling, two on Naxos (compost and source separation), 
one in the Municipality of Argostoli and one in the 
municipalities of Rio and Antirio. 
  7. Many seminars take place every year to educate local 
authority personnel in waste management including recycling 
(mainly source separation). The Government, through the 
Ministry of the Interior, collects information on municipal 
waste management for all local authorities having population 
over 2,000 inhabitants. 
  The Technical Chamber of Greece, after a study which 
finished 
in June of 1993 ("Needed Actions for the Protection of the 
Environment in Greece") estimated that: 
  a) A full-scale source separation programme during 1993 till 
2005 could reach a target of 100 percent of the recyclables with 
a total cost of 13 billion drachmas. 
  b) An estimated 60 percent of the total produced quantity of 
wastes per day all over Greece which is about 8,000 tonnes will 
be recycled or composed of (mechanically or some other method) 
with a total cost of 72 billion drachmas. 
  c) There is a sound proposal for founding an Institute of 
the 
Environment which will also handle the recycling, reducing and 
minimization of wastes. 

