BFN 

<F P=106> [Commentary by Roberto Morejon from the "Evening Information </F>
Review" newscast] 
  [Text] Agreements with two countries could clear up Cuba's 
energy future if they are ultimately implemented, allowing the 
island to improve its economy, whose Achilles' heel is precisely 
the lack of fuel. 
  The weekly OPCIONES, which circulates in Cuba to provide 
information to tourists and foreign residents, said in its 
latest edition that Cuba and Russia ratified an agreement last 
December to exchange Cuban sugar for Russian petroleum. Through 
this agreement, Moscow would send 2.5 million tons of petroleum 
to the island this year in exchange for 1 million tons of 
unrefined sugar. 
  A few days ago, Mexican Ambassador to Cuba Carlos Tello 
revealed both countries had signed a letter of intent to 
exploit, under a joint enterprise scheme, some 60,000 barrels of 
petroleum at the Cienfuegos refinery on the southern coast of 
Cuba, and to produce petroleum byproducts for sale on domestic 
and world markets. 
  If the accord signed by Havana and the Mexican state-owned 
company Mexpetrol advances favorably, the refined product would 
be sold in the Cuban market and the oversupply in other nations. 
The origin of the current Cuban economic crisis is related to 
energy following the reduction in petroleum supplies from the 
defunct Soviet Union, which in 1989 supplied a little more than 
13 million tons. 
  Cuba has been forced to get its economy going with only half 
of this amount, because it does not have the financial reserves 
to purchase all of its petroleum needs. For similar reasons, 
Cuba mothballed its electronuclear program launched with the 
Soviet Union in 1980, when investments exceeded $1.2 billion. 
For the time being, this has eliminated the possibility of 
reducing dependence on imported petroleum. Cuba does not have 
plentiful rivers, large forests, or significant coal deposits, 
and it only exploits wells of heavy petroleum, whose production 
last year hit a record of 1.1 million tons. 
  National crude oil is used in industry, the production of 
cement, and power-generation. Additionally, the country has 
resorted to foreign investments to explore new fields of light 
petroleum by granting risk contracts. The results of these 
contracts will only be known in the future. 
  Even if the agreements with Russia and Mexico bear fruit, 
not 
all of the country's needs will be met. Nevertheless, annual 
payments on imports would be reduced by using petroleum refined 
at the Cienfuegos installation, in addition to securing the 
Russian supply in exchange for Cuban sugar. 

