Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Sergey Vaganov report: "Belarus: Social Democrats </F>
Protest"] 
  [Text] Minsk -- Human rights are being violated in Belarus. 
This was stated by representatives of the Social Democratic 
parties of Belarus, Germany, Latvia, Russia, Lithuania, Sweden, 
and Estonia who participated in an international conference held 
in Minsk on basic questions of social policy and economic 
management in Belarus and neighboring countries. 
  A statement cites facts of judicial and administrative 
persecution of the organizers of a political strike demanding 
early parliamentary elections, the resignation of the present 
government, and the formation of a transitional government. 
After 15 February, when rallies and demonstrations were held in 
Minsk and other cities, many of their participants were 
arrested, fined, and summoned to appear in court. The 
authorities regarded the actions of the strike committees and of 
the Belarusian free trade union as a call for a violent change 
in the state system. A protest, which is fully justified under 
conditions of an economic and political crisis, is described as 
an attempt to overthrow the power structures. All this, the 
statement reads, as well as the restrictions on free speech and 
the rigid control over the mass media, constitutes an offensive 
against human rights. 

