BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Argentine Ambassador to Great Britain Mario </F>
Campora by Ana Gerschenson at his home in Buenos Aires; date not 
given] 
  [Text] [Gerschenson] Is President Menem going to travel to 
London this year? 
  [Campora] I believe the date is closer and closer. The 
president has received invitations from all the countries that 
are partners of the United Kingdom. He was the first Latin 
American president to be invited by the Clinton administration. 
If matters continue as they have, Great Britain will be 
excluding itself from a relationship with a chief of state that 
has such a level of consideration. It is a situation that lacks 
common sense because common sense has always been one of the 
virtues that Anglo-Saxons postulate. The president's trip will 
be soon, very soon. 
  [Gerschenson] You publicly warned that with this "soft" 
policy toward the people of the Malvinas islands we could wake 
up one morning with a photograph of oil platforms sailing from 
London to the South Atlantic. Do you still believe this to be 
true? 
  [Campora] I said the topic had to be considered firmly in 
order not to receive any surprises... (silence) 
  [Gerschenson] And if we receive that surprise? 
  [Campora] ...Well... in that case... in sum... it will 
become part of the earlier evaluations. The minister himself is 
in charge of the topic and has the evaluation of the process. 
  [Gerschenson] But the minister does not tell his ambassador 
in London what he is doing with London? 
  [Campora] Yes... well. He personally is handling this 
matter and he decides. He has decided to give this matter a 
high priority and his personal effort. 
  [Gerschenson] President Menem said we are going to recover 
the islands in the year 2000. When do you see the Argentine 
flag flying over the Malvinas? 
  [Campora] That is futurism. The South Atlantic is an area 
in which Argentina's presence is progressive. When one looks at 
the map, one comes to the conclusion that the islands have an 
undisputable geographical link. There is no other alternative 
than that of integrating with the continent, and the continent 
is Argentina, and in addition it has the rights. 
  [Gerschenson] But Menem says that in the year 2000... 
  [Campora] That is a political objective. The Argentine 
projection foresees the final step of integration with the 
islands in the year 2000. In sum, in politics anything is 
possible. 
  [Gerschenson] Did they send the Christmas presents for the 
Kelpers [preceding word in English] from your embassy? 
  [Campora] No, he [Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella] sent 
them. 
  [Gerschenson] What was the repercussion on British public 
opinion regarding the assassinations during the 1982 war? 
  [Campora] This matter is currently in the hands of the 
Crown's Attorney, and within the next few days we are going to 
know what is going to be done with Scotland Yard's [preceding 
two words in English] investigation. 
  [Gerschenson] Then do you agree with the policy being 
implemented regarding the Malvinas Islands? 
  [Campora] Policy is an instrument that emerges from a higher 
level than mine, and it is executed by the president and the 
minister. I am just a subordinate. 

