BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report under the "Position of the Russian </F>
Ministry of Atomic Energy" rubric and the general heading "Is 
`Foreign' Radioactive Waste To Be Buried in Our Country?": "The 
Protocol Does Not Run Counter to Russian Legislation"] 
  [Text] The protocol to the existing intergovernmental 
agreement of 28 December 1966, which was signed 1 April 1994 by 
Minister Viktor Mikhaylov on behalf of the Russian Federation 
Government, juridically confirmed the fulfillment by Russia, as 
the state taking over from the USSR, of the obligations to 
Hungary which existed prior to 1991. 
  In accordance with the protocol: 
  "The appropriate organizations of the Russian Federation 
pledge to supply, and organizations of the Republic of Hungary 
to purchase, nuclear fuel in the form of ready-made fuel 
assemblies and control assemblies throughout the period of 
operation of the `Paks' Nuclear Electric Power Station in the 
volumes necessary for the annual recharging of the reactors." 
  "The appropriate organizations of the Russian Federation 
will 
accept spent nuclear fuel from the `Paks' Nuclear Electric Power 
Station in the form of fuel assemblies and control assemblies, 
after being held for five years at the `Paks' Nuclear Electric 
Power Station, throughout the period of operation of the `Paks' 
Nuclear Electric Power Station on terms analogous to the 
acceptance of spent nuclear fuel from other countries under 
intergovernmental agreements concluded by the USSR prior to 
1991," i.e. prior to the Russian Federation's adoption in 
December 1991 of the Law "On Protection of the Natural 
Environment," whose Article 50, Point 3 prohibits the 
importation of radioactive waste and materials from other states 
for purposes of storage and burial unless an international 
treaty concluded by the Russian Federation lays down other rules 
(Article 93). 
  The Russian Federation president's Edict No. 472 "On the 
Russian Federation's Fulfillment of Intergovernmental Agreements 
on Cooperation in Constructing Nuclear Electric Power Stations 
Abroad" appeared in April 1993 for the purpose of resolving 
questions relating to previously concluded treaties. The edict 
confirmed (Point 1) Russia's fulfillment of the USSR's 
obligations under intergovernmental agreements on cooperation in 
constructing nuclear electric power stations abroad concluded 
prior to 1991, including in the sphere of the delivery of 
nuclear fuel and the return of spent fuel from these nuclear 
electric power stations to Russia for processing, entrusted 
(Point 2) the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy, Ministry of the 
Environment and Natural Resources, Ministry of Foreign Economic 
Relations, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Federal Inspectorate 
for Nuclear and Radiation Safety with drawing up and approving 
the procedure for accepting spent nuclear fuel from foreign 
nuclear electric power stations for subsequent processing at 
Russian enterprises, and also instructed the Russian Ministry of 
Atomic Energy and Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (Point 
4), when concluding corresponding contracts with foreign 
clients, to proceed from the premise of the 
preferential return to the client country of the 
solidified radioactive waste formed during processing. 
  The "Procedure for Accepting Spent Nuclear Fuel from Foreign 
Countries' Nuclear Electric Power Stations," agreed with all the 
aforesaid departments, was drawn up and approved in 1992 in full 
accordance with the edict. It is of fundamental importance to 
emphasize that the edict enshrined the legal possibility of 
making exceptions from the general rule for the Russian Ministry 
of Atomic Energy and Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations in 
respect of the return of solidified radioactive waste to the 
client. Thus, such an exception was agreed when spent nuclear 
fuel was imported from Hungary in 1993 in connection with the 
Hungarian prime minister's appeal to the chairman of the Russian 
Federation Government with regard to the critical situation 
concerning fuel at the "Paks" Nuclear Electric Power Station. 
The Russian Federation's refusal to accept the said materials 
would be a violation of our obligations, particularly the July 
1986 contracts concluded with the "Paks" Nuclear Electric Power 
Station on the basis of the USSR Government's decree. Such 
actions would undermine Russia's international authority as a 
reliable partner which strictly fulfills the international 
obligations assumed prior to 1991 and would contribute to the 
loss of an important East European market for our industry. 
  Wherever our country has helped to construct nuclear 
electric 
power stations (the CEMA countries of East Europe and Finland), 
Soviet plans have been employed in respect both of the use of 
fresh fuel and of the return of spent fuel to the USSR for 
processing, pursuing, inter alia, the aims of the Treaty on the 
Nonproliferation of Nuclear Technologies. 
  It must be borne in mind that Western firms (Westinghouse, 
Siemens, EDF, and others) are today actively offering their 
services in the construction and modernization of nuclear 
electric power stations and deliveries of nuclear fuel, actively 
squeezing Russia out of the East European market for nuclear 
fuel. 
  It should be pointed out that Britain and France also offer 
extensive services in processing spent nuclear fuel to other 
countries (chiefly West European ones). France also carries out 
large volumes of work on processing such fuel under a contract 
with Japan. 
  During the processing of spent fuel, isotopes of uranium and 
plutonium are extracted for subsequent use in nuclear power 
generation, while waste from processing is vitrified and put 
into lengthy storage. This technology has been developed and 
introduced in our country to ensure the work of all nuclear 
electric power stations with reactors of the VVER-440 
[water-cooled, water-moderated power reactor] type constructed 
by us prior to 1991, with due regard for modern demands with 
regard to protecting the health of personnel and protecting the 
environment. 
  The signed protocol to the 1966 agreement confirms the 
economic relations which took shape between Russia and Hungary 
prior to 1991 and does not run counter to Russian legislation or 
the Russian Federation president's Edict No. 472 of 21 April 
1993, and all the necessary procedures were observed in its 
preparation, including agreeing it with the region in accordance 
with Article 9 of the Law "On Protection of the Natural 
Environment." It ensures the protection of Russia's economic 
and political interests in East Europe and makes it possible, 
inter alia, to resolve the problem of rehabilitating territories 
polluted by industrial activity in the past and of implementing 
the program for handling radioactive waste. 
  Therefore all attempts to cast doubt on the Russian 
Federation Government's decision are unfounded and have nothing 
in common with Russia's interests apart from the desire alone to 
politicize the situation in the country. 

