Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on economic activities in Chile monitored through 20 
January. 
  The Institute for Export Production reported that 
Argentina became Chile's third most-important commercial partner 
in 1993. Exports to it in January-November 1993 totalled $539.3 
million, 26.7 percent higher than in the same period in 1992. 
Japan is first with $1.4351 billion, followed by the United 
States with $1.4134 billion. (Santiago ESTRATEGIA in Spanish 5 
Jan 94 p 6) 
  The National Statistics Institute, INE, reported that 
industrial production increased 3.2 percent between January and 
November 1993 compared with the same period in 1992. The sectors 
with highest increase in November were the manufacturing of 
professional and ophthalmologic equipment with 35.1 percent; 
machines, 24.9 percent; furniture, 16.2 percent, and beverages, 
15.5 percent. (Santiago LA TERCERA DE LA HORA in Spanish 6 Jan 
94 Economy Section p 4) 
  On 5 January, the INE reported that the unemployment rate 
dropped 4.4 percent in the September-November 1993 quarter. The 
country's labor force totalled 5,171,640 people in the same 
quarter, an increase of 5.3 percent compared with the same 
period in 1992. The number of employed people was 4,946,400, an 
increase of 5.8 percent compared with the same quarter in 1992. 
(Santiago LA TERCERA DE LA HORA in Spanish 6 Jan 94 Economic 
Section p 2) 
  On 5 January, the INE reported that the consumer price index 
was 0.2 percent in December 1993, and that the cumulative 
inflation rate was 12.2 percent in 1993, the lowest in 12 years. 
Transportation and telecommunications registered the highest 
increase in December at 1.1 percent; housing, 0.7 percent; and 
others, 2.9 percent. Food prices dropped 1.9 percent and 
clothing prices were unchanged. (Santiago LA TERCERA DE LA HORA 
in Spanish 6 Jan 94 Economy Section pp 1, 2) 
  According to Eduardo Moyano, director of the Foreign 
Ministry's international economic relations, Chilean exports 
dropped 7 percent in 1993 compared with the previous year, 
totaling $9.3 billion, when they reached $9.986 billion in 1992. 
This is the first time since 1985 that total Chilean exports 
dropped compared with the previous year, although overall 
Chilean exports have grown from approximately $3 billion in the 
beginning of the 1980's to almost $10 billion now. (Santiago EL 
MERCURIO in Spanish 8 Jan 94 pp A1, A19) 
  According to Central Bank figures, overall Chilean 
international reserves in 1993 were $9.7586 billion, increasing 
$750 million last year. In 1992, the country's net international 
reserves increased by $2.3693 billion, closing the year with 
$9.0086 billion. (Santiago EL MERCURIO 8 Jan 94 p B1) 
  According to the INE, national mining production, including 
metallic and non-metallic products, increased 5.2 percent during 
the January-November 1993 period compared with same period in 
1992. During that period, copper production reached 1,922,219 
metric tons, which compared to the 1,787,551 metric tons the 
previous year is a 7.5 percent increase. Gold and silver 
production dropped, while lead production also increased. 
(Santiago EL MERCURIO in Spanish 8 January 94 p B28) 

