Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Waldemar Sch∆afer and Josef Hess under the </F>
rubric "Companies and Markets": "DARA [German Agency for Space 
Affairs]/Conversation With the New Director General, Jan-Baldem 
Mennicken. Adapt Strategy to Changed Conditions. Stronger 
Involvement of Small and Medium-Sized Companies. German 
Astronautics Must Not Jeopardize Its Great Potential"] 
  [Text] Thursday, 11 Nov 93 (HANDELSBLATT)--"As long as our 
competitors are being government-supported in a world of 
international competition, this has to be possible in Germany 
too. As with all high technologies, with space too the 
government has to not only set the general framework, but also 
provide positive support for further development." The new 
director general of DARA (German Agency for Space Affairs), 
Jan-Baldem Mennicken, made this statement in a conversation with 
HANDELSBLATT. 
  In Mennicken's opinion, German astronautics is contributing 
to the solution of terrestrial problems. This refers first and 
foremost to problems of telecommunications, earth observation, 
navigation and detection and ranging. It is making use of fixed 
positions beyond the earth. 
  Besides direct practical application, DARA is interested 
also 
in the (indirect) economic effect of space projects, in 
improvement of the industrial structure. It is precisely small 
and medium-sized companies too that must be included in the 
programs here: On the one hand, large companies must let 
themselves be supplied by small and medium-sized ones. 
Mennicken: "We want to bring about transparency in the market as 
regards national funds and those of the European Space Agency 
(ESA) as well. We are trying to get the large system companies 
to deliberately award a part of their contracts to small and 
medium-sized companies." On the other hand, DARA is trying to 
make small and medium-sized companies fit for such industrial 
cooperation, including for development, as regards reliability 
and quality standards, for example. DARA has worked out a 
strategic plan for this purpose. 
  There have definitely been successes in the endeavor of the 
"commercialization" of German astronautics--meaning economic 
activities independently of government support. According to the 
German industry's data, space's share in 1992 already reached a 
volume of business of 430 million German marks [DM], primarily 
in the area of telecommunications and through contracts 
associated with the production of ESA's Ariane-4 rocket. DM1.248 
billion of government support funds were received in the same 
time period, it is stated. The one-to-three ratio between both 
sources of income is viewed as relatively satisfactory. 
<H3>  Research Funds Not Only from BMFT [Federal Ministry for 
Research and Technology] </H3>
  Ever since its founding DARA has endeavored to interest in 
space projects other departments too, besides the Federal 
Ministry for Research and Technology (BMFT) as the main 
financier of German aerospace. There have already been successes 
here too. For instance, a decision has been made at the Federal 
Ministry of Transport to appropriate funds for the second 
generation of Meteosat weather observation satellites that will 
be operational around the year 2000. The time lead versus purely 
terrestrial weather observation already today amounts to two 
days. Cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture is desired in 
a special application for monitoring the use of agricultural 
areas. The observation of seismic areas is very valuable to the 
insurance business, for example. The German Rosat x-ray 
satellite has provided spectacular results in 
space-station-based astronomy. It is essential for full 
utilization of the potential for the exploitation of space to 
develop certain additional instruments or to find a new use for 
instruments at hand. 
  According to Mennicken, the Europeans' participation within 
ESA-- essentially cofinanced by the Germans--in the 
international but American-dominated Freedom space station has 
to be redefined. For, after the turn of events in the East and 
for budget reasons, the Americans decided on close cooperation 
with the Russians. A flight of the US Space Shuttle to the 
Russian Mir space station, where the Americans want to dock, is 
planned at present. In addition, a "core station" is to be built 
from American and Russian components in 1997-98. The large 
Freedom space station is still the ultimate goal. By the way, 
the Japanese have decided on a stay in this ambitious project. 
Furthermore, the Canadians too are one of the party with their 
robotic arm that they designed. 
  The Europeans have had to order substantial economizing in 
their Columbus contribution--likewise for budget reasons. For 
instance, the MTFF (Man Tended Free Flyer), i.e., a docked 
laboratory module, has been shelved. Using the new Ariane-5 
rocket as a transporter for cargo and later for people is being 
discussed now, instead of the canceled Hermes space transporter. 
On the other hand the Polar Platform scheduled for orbiting over 
both poles of the earth will come about. It is planned as a 
carrier for the new large Envisat satellites. The Europeans 
(ESA) demanded active participation in the (to be reconfigured) 
Russian-American space station. They would like to provide a 
data management system or a special antenna for communication 
between satellites, for example. 
  After the two space shuttle missions under German scientific 
leadership--D1 and D2--there will be no D3. This is an obvious 
political decision, says Mennicken. Just whether there will be a 
Europe-1 mission within ESA is still being debated at present. 
The hypersonic transporter project, along the lines of the 
S∆anger (Germany) or Hotol (Great Britain) proposals, at 
the 
interface of aeronautics and astronautics, also had to be 
revised in its basic formulation nationally or within ESA, "in 
order to be able to decide in 10 or 20 years on the development 
of prototypes." 
  Mennicken joins with the call of the Federal Association of 
the German Aerospace and Armaments Industry (BDLI) to absolutely 
maintain a certain industrial base in order to be able to still 
take part at all as a partner country in international projects. 
There is a threshold that, if fallen below, has to result in a 
loss of know-how and of valuable staff members. This holds true 
all the more so when the USA together with the Russians has 
definitely decided to further pursue manned space flights too. 
<H5>  Lunar Station Is Being Debated As Ever </H5>
  The Japanese are going all out in space today after years of 
a certain reservedness. The (unmanned) Russian Mars mission is 
pending in 1994 and 1996. Three US shuttles have also come of 
age up to the Challenger replacement, the Endeavour. According 
to NASA's account, plans for a successor transport system cannot 
be financed at present. 
  According to the head of DARA, a lunar station--which was 
previously one of the visions of the German rocket pioneer and 
father of the Saturn-5 lunar rocket, Wernher von Braun--is for 
the time being not topical. However, ESA is forming a strategy 
group of space specialists, bankers and industrialists that is 
to examine this aspect. 
  Mennicken also mentions visions of space experts at Deutsche 
Aerospace AG [German Stock Corporation]. According to them, in 
cooperation with the Russians sometime in the future, helium-3, 
which occurs in practically unlimited quantities on the moon, 
could be "surface-mined," transported to the earth and be used 
here to produce energy in "clean," i.e., non-radiating, fusion 
reactors. A second vision boils down to the solution of the 
ozone hole problem. The use of laser beams in order to form 
ozone is one of the possibilities to be investigated here. 
  Whether these visions can ever be realized cannot be 
answered 
at present. But the head of DARA considers it important to 
inspire young people toward new ideas henceforth also. At any 
rate part of the impetus of the last 30 years owes itself to 
this enthusiasm. 
  DM1.737 billion have been appropriated as the total sum for 
space for fiscal year 1993 (German contribution to ESA, funds 
for the national space program including the bilateral project, 
as well as funds for the German Research Institute for Aerospace 
(DLR)). The head of DARA considers this amount "still 
considerable considering the problems in this country. Our job 
will be to focus on priorities the funds available." Additional 
potential for the exploitation of space must always to be paid 
attention to. We have to investigate, for example, "whether we 
should proceed via satellite technology in the further 
development of telecommunications." There are particularly very 
good capabilities for astronautics in Germany with its 
industrial infrastructure and with DLR's research and testing 
centers, he says. 

