BFN 

  [Text] La Paz, 8 May (JATHA) -- Bolivian Foreign Minister 
Antonio Aranibar today stated that the signing of an extradition 
treaty with the United States is on the government's agenda. He 
noted that the government is determined to sign it if it would 
benefit the country. 
  Aranibar said that the government would, in any case, sign 
the treaty "safeguarding the principle of respect for national 
sovereignty." 
  The issue has resurfaced at a time when the Bolivian Supreme 
Court is studying a U.S. petition for the extradition of Colonel 
Faustino Rico Toro, a former drug enforcement official who is 
facing charges in a Florida state court. 
  Aranibar said: "An extradition treaty is on the agenda, and 
the Bolivian Government is now willing to discuss it, to 
negotiate it, and--if appropriate--to sign the respective 
treaty." 
  Aranibar added: "This is how things currently stand, and 
this is the approach with which the Bolivian Government is going 
to work. We are determined to look into the prospects for modern 
international legal cooperation, taking into account the 
country's interests and the principles of international law." 
  Since the extradition of Asunta "Chunty" Roca Surez in July 
1982, the Supreme Court has turned down similar U.S. extradition 
requests, arguing that there are contradictions between Bolivian 
laws and the Vienna convention on drug enforcement and 
extradition. 
  The Bolivian Government and the U.S. Embassy have time and 
again stated that the new extradition treaty--unlike the one 
currently in force, which dates back to 1900--will be 
specifically focused on the crime of drug trafficking. 

