Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Pierre Langereux: "Slowdown in Research at </F>
German Aerospatiale"] 
  [Text] The German aerospace research institution will 
eliminate 450 jobs and lay off the Federal Republic's five 
astronauts by 1996 
  The DLR (Deutsche Forschungsanstalt fur Luft un Raumfahrt) 
which is the central aerospace studies and research organization 
of the Federal Republic of Germany has just announced on 18 
November that as of next year it will dissolve the German 
astronaut contingent which included five members selected a few 
years ago, among whom were two young women, Heike Walpot and 
Renate Brummer, as well as three men: Hans-Wilhelm Schlegel, 
Ulrich Walter, and Gerhard Thiele. 
  The official reason given is lack of funding to maintain a 
pool of astronauts which is all the more pointless since "there 
are no longer any manned missions in the German space program," 
according to Walter Kroll, president of DLR. 
  Questioned at the same time by WELT AM SONNTAG, the young 
German Minister of Research, Paul Kruger (43 years old) declared 
however that manned space flights "are an option that should not 
be abandoned entirely" since "it is part of humanity." More 
particularly, the minister feels the need for attention "not to 
miss the boat" of the important Russian-American project for a 
future manned space station in orbit! 
  Mr Kruger also declared that he wanted to "develop the 
German 
budget and research program," and to do it "full steam ahead." 
Meanwhile, the president of DLR has announced that the 
organization's payroll will be slashed by about 10 percent--450 
people out of 4700--by 1996. Budget cuts were the reason given 
by Mr Kroll, the federal institution's funding having gone from 
650 M.DM in 1992 to 630 M.DM in 1993 with further cuts to 616 
M.DM planned for 1994. 

