CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by O. Goering: "Europe's Downfall"; Subhead: </F>
"European Aerospace with Back to Wall, Resources Reduced, U.S. 
and Russia Forming Alliance, Columbus Program Languishing"] 
  [Text] Space research is currently between a rock and a 
hard place. In recent years the dimensions and objectives of the 
ambitious Freedom Project, the space station planned jointly by 
the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan, have already undergone 
repeated moltings. The National Aeronautics and Space Agency 
[NASA] and aerospace firms fear additional cuts. To play it safe 
they have assigned a redesign team to look for alternatives in 
international cooperation as well. 
  The outlook is not much better in Russia even if one more 
prestige project for a long-term stay in space has now been 
launched. In October 1993 there was still not even any more 
money for a booster rocket to relieve the crew in the MIR 
station. Another two modules have been standing by for a long 
while now to be transported into space in order to be added to 
the space station. 
  Space research cannot even expect much support any longer 
from the public. Although the experts do not tire of pointing 
out to the ordinary consumer the practical advantages of their 
costly experiments -- intercontinental TV transmissions, 
telephone conversations and data transmissions via satellite or 
the daily weather maps from space -- global recession and 
political insecurity have caused readiness to finance manned 
space projects to dwindle. 
<H5>  International Space Station </H5>
  Bowing to necessity, the U.S. space organization NASA and 
the 
Russian space agency RKA have effected a rapprochement, 
nothwithstanding ill feelings. The result is a cooperative 
agreement that provides for joint construction of space station 
"Alpha," that will later include the U.S.'s current partner 
countries. 
  The Russians are contributing their more than 20 years of 
experience in the construction of space stations. Especially 
valuable are their medical know-how about long-term stays in 
space of up to one year, on-board life-support systems and 
docking technology. 
  According to preliminary deliberations the cooperation is 
supposed to proceed as follows: in the initial phase the 
Americans will intensively make shared use of the MIR station. 
Then beginning in 1996/97 a manned station is supposed to be 
developed from the core module of MIR-2 and the U.S.'s 
laboratory module. In the third phase this will be fashioned 
into an international station and include Canada, Japan and the 
European Space Agency [ESA] also. 
  But there are reservations. Although the concept may be 
politically and financially convincing, the Europeans, above 
all, fear that they will be sidelined by the warm embrace of the 
two space giants. 
  Currently under Germany's overall leadership within the 
ESA's 
Columbus program a module has been developed that is supposed to 
be coupled to the space station as a work and living area for 
the astronauts. This "Attached Pressurized Module" [APM] 
reportedly has a length of 12.8 meters, a four-meter diameter 
and weighs as much as 28 tons. 
  What the U.S. and Russia are now jointly contriving renders 
that project obsolete. A higher orbital inclination vis-a-vis 
the equator at 51.6ë is to be selected for the international 
station. That suits the Russians, since their present space 
stations already occupy that orbit from the Tyuratam launch site 
in Kazakhstan. Freedom, on the other hand, is to have a 28.5 
degree orbital inclination. This consequently facilitates the 
maximum space shuttle payload from the launch site at Cape 
Canaveral. 
  After launching there can hardly be justification for any 
alteration of the specific orbital inclination for the Russians. 
It would require additional energy and the effective weight of 
the U.S. booster systems would be reduced. 
  The new variations have heavily impacted the ESA and Japan. 
Their modules have been designed for the shuttle's maximum 
payload. The reduction that is now required will result in 
higher costs for Europe and narrow their scientific programs. 
The Europeans cannot even prevail by arguing that the crew 
reduction takes away necessary working space. The Russians, on 
the other hand, maintain that with the MIR-2 core module and 
possible additional modules there will be sufficient room 
available at least for the first year of operation. 
  Under budgetary pressure in Germany, Jan-Baldem Mennicken, 
the general director of the German Space Agency [DARA], has 
asserted that development of the Columbus module should no 
longer be pursued. It would make better sense to introduce key 
systems as early as the second phase of the construction 
beginning in 1997. "There are good prospects here for the data 
management system developed for the Columbus and that the 
Russians want to incorporate into MIR-2." 
  As always, thousands of well paying jobs in Germany are at 
risk. At stake is valuable know-how that has been accumulated 
over many years and that later will possibly have to be 
repurchased at high cost from abroad. 
  Europe and Japan have to swallow yet another bitter pill. 
The 
launch deadines are being moved from 1998/99 to the year 2002, 
or even later. Each year of delay results in additional costs of 
several dozen millions. 
  The free-flying laboratory originally planned by the ESA in 
the Columbus program, that was to be transported into orbit with 
the Ariane 5 and serviced by the Hermes space transporter, has 
now been virtually brushed aside. Since the decision was made 
not to build the Hermes there is just no way of determining how 
it can be introduced in other projects. 
  The question is wide open as to what alternatives for 
cooperation are left for Europe with the super-union of the U.S. 
and Russia. It is hardly possible any longer to speak of a 
partnership. The ESA is still seeking to paper over the breach: 
there is agreement on the fact "that a process of ongoing 
consultations has to be implemented on all levels that could 
lead to Russia becoming an equal partner in the international 
space station," is the way it is diplomatically worded from 
Paris. 
  The ESA has been forced to tackle the issue head on. But its 
proposal to contribute a manned transport capsule and a 
freighter has hardly met with a warm reception. Yuri Semyonov, 
general director of NPO [Scientific Production Association] 
Energiya, snidely retorted: "Why reinvent the bicycle? Both 
systems are already available in Soyuz and Progress." 

