BFN 

  [Text] Belo Horizonte -- The Mendes Junior Construction 
Company has won an international bid to build the TSQ-1 
hydroelectric plant on the Nanpan River in China. At an 
estimated cost of $300 million, the power plant will produce 1.2 
million Kw. It must be completed within 64 months. The Mendes 
Junior Construction Company won the bid through a joint venture 
[preceding two words in English] system with the Chinese company 
Jiangnan Water Resources &amp; Hydropower Construction Corp. 
  This is the first project contracted with a Brazilian 
company 
in China. In total, the Mendes Junior Company has 130 projects 
contracted in our country, at an estimated cost of $1.8 billion, 
and nine projects contracted abroad, not counting the bid won in 
China. 
  U.S. and Japanese companies participated in the bid. The 
Chinese Energy Ministry is responsible for contracting the 
successful consortium named South China Hydropower Construction 
Association. Most of the funds will be supplied by the Chinese 
Government. The OECF (a Japanese fund) also will be involved. 
  It is believed that the hydroelectric plant, scheduled for 
construction on the Nanpan River on the Guizhou Province-Guangxi 
Province border in southwest China, is essential to increase 
China's power output. China now has a power output deficit of 
about 50 percent. 
  The TSQ-1's power will mainly be distributed to the new 
industrial belt of Guangzhou (Canton). According to Nilton 
Marchetti, the Mendes Junior Asia Division manager, the company 
will send at least 30 technicians to manage the project. 

