BOOKS,  JOURNALS, COMMERCIAL DATA BASES, AND OTHER OPEN-SOURCE 
PUBLICATIONS, OR ON RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTS.  SOME OF THE 
MATERIALS USED IN THIS PUBLICATION WILL APPEAR AS ABSTRACTS OR FULL 
TRANSLATIONS IN FBIS SERIAL REPORTS.  COMMENTS AND QUERIES REGARDING 
THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE DIRECTED TO THE MANAGING EDITOR (SHARON W. 
AT (703) 733-6395), THE EDITORIAL ASSISTANT (CHRIS R. AT (703) 733- 
6622), OR INDIVIDUALS AT THE NUMBERS LISTED WITH ITEMS. 
   DEVELOPMENTS 
   DEVELOPMENTS highlights worldwide S&amp;T events reported in the 
foreign media. Items followed by an asterisk will be published in 
full by FBIS. The contributor's name and telephone number are 
provided. 
   Automotive Industry 
   (Italy) A hydrogen-fueled engine developed by the Agency for New 
Technologies, Energy, and the Environment (ENEA) and VM Motori, in 
collaboration with Magneti MareIIi and the University of Pisa, is 
currently being tested on a Fiat van. The engine gives the van a 
range of about 200 kilometers and is far less polluting than 
gasoline engines. The hydrogen used to power it is contained in 
eight pressurized tanks. (Rome AMBIENTE Nov 93) Brussels 
Bureau/Sharon W. 733-6395 
   (Italy) The Porter Elettrico, an electric vehicle developed by 
Piaggio in collaboration with the Micro-Vett company of Imola, was 
exhibited at the Bologna Motor Show in December. The 4- or 6-seat 
minibus is a van with a 500-kilogram payload capacity. Another 
version is a garbage truck with a 400-kilogram payload capacity. All 
versions are powered by the 10-kilowatt M1O0 electric motor 
developed by Micro-Vett. Part of the kinetic energy generated in 
braking is converted to electricity for battery recharge. The 
vehicle's top speed has been held to 55 kilometers per hour to 
maximize acceleration and range. The new vehicle is exempt from 
certain taxes, and its insurance rate has been reduced by 50 
percent. Sales were slated to begin in January through Piaggio's 
sales network, with the price of the minibus expected to be 
35,280,000 lire ($20,700). (Rome ANSA 7 Dec 93)* Sharon W. 733-6395 
   (Germany) Volkswagen is preparing to market the Golf Ecomatic, 
the first production-model automobile that conserves fuel and 
reduces emissions by turning off its engine when the gas pedal is 
released and restarting it when the pedal is again depressed. An 
electronics package controls the engine and maintains safety 
functions such as power steering, lights, and power brakes. When the 
gas pedal is released, the engine stops and a servomotor engages the 
clutch, disconnecting the wheels from the transmission and allowing 
the car to continue forward by momentum alone. When the engine 
restarts, the car's electrical system switches to an auxiliary 
battery so that it is not subject to the voltage drop associated 
with the starter's high electrical consumption. In large urban 
areas, where a car's engine might be off up to 60 percent of the 
time, the system could reduce carbon monoxide emissions by 36 
percent, hydrocarbon and nitrogen oxide emissions by 25 percent, and 
carbon dioxide emissions by 21 percent. Fuel consumption could be 
reduced by at least 1 liter per 100 kilometers. (Paris L'USINE 
NOUVELLE 2 Dec 93)* Alexis M. 733-6345 
   (France) Working with French automakers, the French Petroleum 
Institute (IFP) has developed two experimental fuel-injection 
techniques aimed at making the two-stroke automobile engine a viable 
alternative to the conventional four-stroke engine by eliminating 
its chief disadvantage: emissions of unburned hydrocarbons that are 
10 to 20 percent higher than those of a conventional engine. One 
technique, a direct liquid injection procedure, allows fuel to be 
fully atomized just before ignition. Another, an air injection 
procedure developed with Peugeot, can, according to initial 
research, reduce hydrocarbon emissions by over 97 percent and carbon 
monoxide emissions by over 99 percent--enough to meet emissions 
standards for the year 2000. Although both procedures (which rely on 
pressurization) are currently expensive, the IFP hopes that the two- 
stroke engine's advantages--lighter weight, simpler architecture, 
lower cost, and greater power--will persuade auto makers to invest 
in further research. (Paris AFP SCIENCES 2 Dec 93) Alexis M. 733- 
6345 
   (Mexico/Italy) The Italian firm Faam-batterie Sp.A. will develop 
electric vehicles for sale in Mexico as the result of a late 
November agreement with the Mexican Government. Mexico has already 
agreed to purchase a prototype vehicle and the Italian company plans 
to set up a vehicle production plant in Mexico. Faam-batterie has 
asked the European Community for 250,000 ECU ($278,000) for market 
research. The recently enacted North American Free Trade Agreement 
will allow Mexico to export the electric vehicles to Canada or the 
United States without paying export duties. (Milan IL SOLE-24 ORE 23 
Nov 93)* Renee McG. 733-6339 
   Clean Energy 
   (China) China's largest photovoltaic power facility has 
officially joined the power grid. Located in the Ngari District of 
western Xizang, the Gerze solar power station, for which 
construction costs totaled some 2.5 million yuan ($287,000), is a 
joint investment project involving the Ministry of Electric Power, 
the Xizang Planning Commission and Gerze County. Ground was broken 
on the project in 1991 and the facility was officially inaugurated 
in November 1993. (Beijing RENMIN RIBAO (OVERSEAS EDITION) 3 Dec 93) 
Parker H. 733-6336. 
   (United Kingdom) A 30-megawatt electric power plant that produces 
energy by burning discarded tires has been opened in Wolverhampton. 
The $85 million plant will burn 8 to 10 million automobile and truck 
tires a year to produce electricity for 25,000 households. It 
produces no harmful emissions, and the residue from the combustion 
process will be recycled for other industrial uses. (Rome ANSA 12 
Nov 93) Brussels Bureau/Sharon W. 733-6395 
   (Japan) Working with Tokyo Gas, Osaka Gas, and Toho Gas, Mitsui 
Engineering &amp; Shipbuilding Company, Ltd. has developed a gas turbine 

combustor with low nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions (25 ppm NOx) with 
16 percent O2 when installed in Mitsui's 1,000-kilowatt gas 
turbine). The Mitsui Super Premix employs a dry method called "lean 
diffuse/premix two-stage combustion," which reduces NOx emissions by 
diffuse-combusting some of the fuel to stabilize the flame, then 
premixing most of the remaining fuel with combustion gases and 
eventually reducing the flame temperature for improved gross thermal 
and overall efficiency. The dry design eliminates maintenance and 
water purification problems associated with the water or steam spray 
method. The new combustor, which meets Tokyo's and Osaka's strict 
NOx regulations, is expected to encourage the use of cogeneration. 
Two of the combustors are operating in cogeneration systems in 
Sapporo City. (Tokyo KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 15 Dec 93)* Junko A. 733- 
6346 
   Clean Manufacturing 
   (Germany) An environmentally friendly water treatment system at 
the Siemens Matsushita aluminum capacitor plant in Heidenheim uses a 
dialysis system that makes it possible to recover and reuse 
materials used in the manufacturing process, reducing overall 
production costs by nearly 75 percent. The treatment system cost 1.2 
million marks ($687,000); the cost for a conventional system is 1.7 
million marks ($974,000). Waste water recovered after aluminum 
etching has high concentrations of hydrochloric and sulfuric acids. 
Conventional water treatment systems include a neutralization phase 
followed by separation of liquids and solids. The liquids are 
released into the sewer system, while the solids are dumped. In the 
Heidenheim system, a membrane separates the waste water directly 
into two parts: one rich in hydrochloric and sulfuric acids (up to 
80 percent of which can be recovered and reused) and the other rich 
in metals. The metal-bearing part, composed mainly of alumina salt, 
can be used in organic filtering to precipitate bacteria. (Paris 
ELECTRONIQUE INTERNATIONAL HEBDO 16 Dec 93)* Sharon W. 733-6395 
   (EC) The European Community is sponsoring a new project to 
develop artificial intelligence applications in the paper industry 
in order to minimize environmental damage and costs incurred in the 
manufacturing process. The EC's CLEAN project will implement 
computer-aided software engineering (CASE)-based learning methods to 
optimize performance in production processes. Project participants 
are Siemens, British Maritime Technology, and the Belgian University 
of Leuven, as well as the initial customers for the technology, 
Portuguese cellulose manufacturer Cellulose do Caima and Dutch paper 
maker Roermond Papier. (Zellik TECHNIVISIE Nov 93)* Brussels 
Bureau/Renee McG. 733-6339 
   (China) China's first "green" electronics plant with an air 
conditioning and purification system cooled by a freon substitute is 
to be built in 1994 in Dongwan City, Guangdong Province. The joint 
venture is called Dongwan-DuPont Electronic Materials Ltd. Dongwan 
Southern Electronics Ltd. and DuPont China Group Ltd. will jointly 
invest $13 million. The facility will include new microcircuit 
materials fabrication equipment like that used in DuPont's British, 
Japanese, and US plants. By 1995, the joint venture will begin 
manufacturing thick-film circuits and circuit materials and other 
electronic devices for automotive applications, computers, and 
similar high-tech products for both the domestic and international 
markets. (Beijing RENMIN RIBAO OVERSEAS EDITION 20 Dec 93)* Thomas 
T. 733-6342 
   Solar Cells 
   (Japan) Sharp Corporation has developed a 1 x 1-centimeter solar 
cell whose deterioration in efficiency is one-third that of 
conventional solar cells. The efficiency, initially 11.4 percent, 
dropped to a low of 10.2 percent after 300 hours of exposure to 
light but improved to a final 10.4 percent after another 50 hours. 
The 450-nanometer-thick cell consists of a layer of amorphous 
silicon/carbon sandwiched between two layers of amorphous 
silicon/germanium on a glass substrate. Researchers maintained high 
conversion efficiency with these thin films by changing the 
wavelength of incoming light. Sharp is developing a 10 x 10- 
centimeter prototype cell and hopes to produce 30 x 40-centimeter 
cells for practical application by the year 2000. (Tokyo NIKKEI 
SANGYO SHIMBUN 22 Dec 93) Junko A. 733-6346 
   FEATURE ARTICLES 
   ISRAEL/GERMANY/ITALY: POSSIBLE BREAKTHROUGH IN BATTERY TECHNOLOGY 
   European tests of an Israeli-developed zinc-air battery show it 
gives an electric vehicle the performance and range capabilities of 
one powered by an internal combustion engine. 
   Recent German and Italian press reports suggest that an Israeli- 
developed zinc-air battery may represent a breakthrough for electric 
vehicles. Tests by the German federal postal authority (the 
Bundespost), as well as by Italy's National Electricity Board and 
the Montedison company, showed that the new battery is lighter than 
other systems and has a long life. It is also the first battery 
capable of giving electric vehicles performance and range 
characteristics comparable to those of vehicles powered by internal 
combustion engines. The Bundespost is so impressed that it plans to 
replace part of its diesel fleet with electric vehicles powered by 
zinc-air batteries. 
   About five years ago, an Israeli researcher achieved a 
breakthrough in zinc electrode processing that led to development of 
the new zinc-air battery. According to a report in DIE WELT (17 Jun 
93), it has long been known that zinc can be used to make high- 
energy-density batteries. Many small standard 1.5-volt batteries 
already have zinc electrodes that produce electrical energy through 
an oxidation process. But increasing the energy density enough to 
power a vehicle requires creating a much larger electrode surface 
area, and the very fine zinc powder needed to achieve this surface 
area was extremely flammable and virtually impossible to process. 
The Israeli researcher discovered a simple way to make nonflammable 
zinc powder that could be processed into porous electrodes with 
extremely large surface areas. When immersed in a weak alkaline 
solution and supplied with oxygen, these sponge-like zinc electrodes 
become powerful generators of electric current, achieving an energy 
density of 300 watt-hours per kilogram, about 10 times that of a 
lead battery. The Jerusalem company Electric Fuel Limited (EFL) 
holds the patent on the zinc powder and is licensing the process. 
   Germany's Bundespost recently sponsored a series of tests of the 
EFL battery performed by the German Technical Control Board in 
Munich. The tests, which used a 3.5-ton electric Mercedes fitted 
with a 650-kilogram EFL zinc-air battery system, were described in 
DIE WELT (17 Jun 93) and WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE (2 Jul 93). In traffic, 
the test vehicle exhibited performance comparable to that of a 
diesel vehicle, accelerating to 50 kilometers per hour in 10 seconds 
and reaching speeds of up to 110 kilometers per hour. Whereas a 900- 
kilogram lead-gel system gave a Bundespost electric van a range of 
only 54 kilometers, the zinc-air batteries had sufficient charge to 
enable a light truck to complete a 320-kilometer mail delivery route 
with many stops or to allow 400-kilometer long trips in a passenger 
car. The oxidized zinc electrodes were then removed from the modular 
batteries and replaced with fresh ones. This "refueling" takes only 
three minutes with a special tool. In another test designed to 
assess cold-weather durability the entire test vehicle was left in a 
cold chamber for three days at -20 degrees Celsius. Whereas 
conventional batteries tend to break down when exposed to extreme 
cold, the EFL battery immediately supplied enough power to start and 
operate the vehicle. 
   After they are removed from the battery, used electrodes can be 
regenerated easily in a special process. The metal is purged of 
oxygen and shaped into new electrodes using electrical power either 
from a grid or from solar cells, whichever is less expensive. The 
zinc batteries in the Munich test vehicle were "refueled" using 
solar power from the desert outside Jerusalem and were then flown 
back to Bavaria "charged" (DIE WELT). 
   The Bundespost officially announced the successful Munich battery 
trials at the end of August 1993 (WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE). Christian Bader 
of Mercedes-Benz's Utility Vehicle Development department called the 
EFL battery "quite outstanding." Gabor Benczur-Urmossy, battery 
specialist at the German Automotive Society, said the EFL design 
provides a battery whose performance "approaches that of an internal 
combustion engine" in terms of range and acceleration. A Technical 
Control Board study also confirmed that the EFL technology meets 
ecological and safety requirements "without any restrictions," 
according to WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE. According to Bundespost calculations, 
the EFL battery has an efficiency of about 26 percent: higher than 
that of any other battery system and higher than that of a diesel 
engine. 
   DIE WELT comments that the new battery is best suited for use in 
fleets in which all the vehicles return to a common depot where the 
electrodes can be replaced. Though the need for an infrastructure of 
electrode reprocessing facilities is cited as a possible drawback, 
other fleet operators such as Bundespost Telekom and various 
municipal works are reported to be very interested--to the extent 
that they will probably help finance the infrastructure 
(WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE). In the coming months the Lurgi Plant 
Construction firm in Frankfurt plans to participate in development 
of a reprocessing facility for zinc electrodes. 
   Test results have been so promising that the Bundespost wants to 
replace part of its diesel fleet with electric vehicles powered by 
EFL batteries. At a press conference in late December (DIE WELT 23 
Dec 93) Bundespost officials announced that starting in 1995, about 
70 vehicles owned by the Bundespost and various firms and 
municipalities will be fitted with the new battery for field trials 
designed to answer some operational questions. For example, 
Bundespost board member Guenter Tumm said the operating costs of an 
EFL battery-powered vehicle should initially be about 1.40 marks (80 
cents) per kilometer, but Bundespost experts are convinced that as 
the batteries come into more widespread use the price per kilometer 
could drop to .54 mark (31 cents) per kilometer by the year 2000. 
Bundespost consultants have estimated the procurement cost of an EFL 
vehicle at about 50,000 marks ($28,600), about twice that of a 
diesel, but likewise predict that as more electric vehicles are 
purchased, they will eventually become less expensive than diesels 
(WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE). If the field trials go well, 80 percent of the 
Bundespost mail delivery fleet will be electric "within a few 
years," according to Guenter Tumm. 
   It has not yet been decided who will build the cars and batteries 
for the field trials (WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE). The Bundespost says it 
wants to buy them, not make them. Some German automakers who had 
participated in the market research, including Mercedes-Benz and 
Volkswagen, have dropped out of the project to avoid further 
development costs. Domestic battery manufacturers such as Varta, 
Bosch, and Hoppecke are also described as hesitant. 
   Bundespost official Walter Trux has said everyone will have an 
opportunity to bid on the project, including some foreign firms that 
have already demonstrated an interest in building EFL vehicles (DIE 
WELT 2 Jun 93). The Italian firm Montedison has already been 
licensed by EFL to produce batteries in Italy, France, Spain, and 
Portugal. The first series production was due to begin in Europe by 
the end of 1993, according to EFL chief Yehuda Harats 
(WIRTSCHAFTSWOCHE). In addition, Montedison has contracted with the 
sports car manufacturer Lamborghini to build a prototype vehicle 
specially designed for an electric drive: a lightweight 
intermediate-class van with an all-plastic body. 
   Montedison and Italy's National Electricity Board (ENEL) have run 
joint tests of the EFL zinc-air battery (IL S0LE-24 ORE 10 Nov 93). 
These tests, like those in Munich, confirmed a range of about 300 
kilometers, far superior to the 180-kilometer range of sodium-sulfur 
batteries and the 90-kilometer range of nickel-cadmium batteries of 
the same weight. Some EFL batteries are being tested on the 
prototypes currently under development by Lamborghini. The official 
presentation of these electric vehicles is scheduled for the first 
half of 1994. 
   Montedison plans to continue research on the battery for another 
two years (investments to date total about 15 billion Iire, or $8.8 
million) before going on to actual industrial-scale production. The 
company is seeking partners for both production and marketing. 
Montedison's agreement with EFL also provides for joint research and 
for setting up an electrode reprocessing facility in Trofarello, 
Italy (IL SOLE-24 ORE). 
   Sharon W. 733-6395 
   JAPAN: DRIVE TO DEVELOP ELECTRIC VEHICLE INDUSTRY 
   Japanese government agencies and private companies are developing 
the technologies and support infrastructure for the Japanese 
electric vehicle industry. 
   Impending environmental regulations in California and 
other US states requiring sales of zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) are 
spurring Japanese efforts to develop electric vehicles (EVs) 
competitive in performance and price with conventional vehicles. The 
industry's most recently developed EVs were the main attraction at 
the Tokyo Motor Show in October. Japanese researchers meanwhile 
believe that battery technology remains the key to EV development. 
   The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) and its 
auxiliary organizations, the Environment Agency, and local 
governments are providing support to Japan's nascent EV industry. 
Government officials are supporting R&amp;D, promoting industry 
standards, and procuring electric vehicles in order to stimulate 
production. Japan's electric power companies, automobile 
manufacturers, battery makers, tire companies, and other firms are 
developing their own products to meet the tougher standards. (For 
previous reporting on electric vehicle development in Japan, see 
PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 6, 31 May 93.) 
   MITI's Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) 
reportedly is promoting domestic EV industry standards compatible 
with international ones to facilitate international trade (DENKI 
SHIMBUN 23 Aug 93). An official in the Electric Power Technology 
Division, Public Utilities Department, of MITI's Agency of Natural 
Resources and Energy (ANRE), predicts that California's 1998 
legislation is likely to result in large-scale popularization of EVs 
(SEISAN TO DENKI Jul 93). MITI has also decided to call on the 
United States and Europe for joint development of electric vehicles 
beginning in fiscal year 1994 "in the hope of easing trade friction" 
(NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 25 Sep 93). 
   MITI Promoting R&amp;D, Use, Standards 
   MITI is seeking sharply increased funding from the Finance 
Ministry in fiscal year 1994 (April 1994 through March 1995) for its 
EV development and commercialization projects. In this second year 
of its 10-year, 14-billion-yen ($127 million) lithium battery 
development project, MITI is requesting 1.264 billion yen ($11.5 
million); funding for 1993 is 685 million yen ($6.2 million). The 
ministry is also seeking 1.634 billion yen ($14.9 million) in 1994 
for its Ecostation 2000 plan to establish a nationwide 
infrastructure of EV recharging facilities; 1993 funding is set at 
850 million yen ($7.7 million). MITI is thus preparing to spend 
approximately 90 percent more on each of the projects in 1994 than 
it did in 1993. The ministry is also planning to fund two new 
projects: 100 million yen ($909,000) for research on developing 
hybrid electric vehicles and 3.3 billion yen ($300 million) in 
financing to promote the acquisition of EVs and other low-pollution 
vehicles and the leasing of fuel supply facilities. Preferential 
financing would cover half the price of acquiring the vehicles; with 
EV prices averaging 4 million yen ($36,400), the plan would 
facilitate the acquisition of 1,500 EVs (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 4 Oct 
93). Through the Japan Electric Vehicle Association (JEVA), MITI has 
provided subsidies to local governments, power companies, and other 
organizations to promote the leasing of 400 electric vehicles 
(SEISAN TO DENKI Jul 93). 
   MITI's request for 100 million yen to develop hybrid electric 
vehicles marks the start of a seven-year project to design vehicles 
combining an internal combustion engine with an electric motor. The 
ministry has tasked the Japan Automobile Research Institute (JARI), 
which is establishing a committee of industry representatives to 
survey the relevant technology during fiscal years 1994 and 1995. 
MITI will then oversee a subsequent five-year development phase. 
Hino Motors has already developed its HIMR hybrid bus, which uses 
electric power for starting and stopping, but MITI envisions 
developing hybrid EV technology that will provide power 
continuously. Although the overall budget and funding obligations of 
MITI and the project's corporate participants have not been set, 
total spending over the life of the project is estimated at more 
than one billion yen ($9 million) (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 28 Sep 93). 
   In fiscal year 1992 MITI also began a five-year, 2.3-billion-yen 
project conducted by the New Energy and Industrial Technology 
Development Organization (NEDO) and JARI that will develop 
technology for recharging stations, conduct EV fleet tests using the 
recharging equipment, and study how to install the necessary 
infrastructure (SEKIYU May 93). The MITI system consists of a 
battery that is charged at night; this battery then becomes the 
power source for a daytime EV rapid recharging stand (NIKKEI RYUTSU 
SHIMBUN 8 Jun 93; NEDO NEWS May 93). MITI has provided Nippon 
Express Co. and two other companies with electric vehicles and 
recharging facilities to collect data. According to NIKKEI RYUTSU 
SHIMBUN (8 Jun 93), in June Nippon Express began "full-scale" use of 
its recharging facilities, described as "Japan's largest." In 
addition, a public corporation supporting MITI's Ecostation 2000 
plan is conducting technical research and surveys on such topics as 
reducing the size of EV recharging facilities (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 
17 May 93). 
   MITI has also been promoting standardization as indispensable to 
the development of electric vehicles (ASAHI SHIMBUN 26 Jul 93). In 
1993 JEVA formed a standardization committee, headed by a MITI 
official, in the Vehicle Engineering Division of AIST's Mechanical 
Engineering Laboratory. The committee consists of four subpanels: 
EV bodies, batteries, infrastructure, and Ecostations (SEKIYU May 
93; NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 19 Apr 93). On 24 November MITI announced 
standards covering EV batteries, motors, connecting devices in 
recharging equipment, and other components that the ministry and 
JEVA had jointly devised. By 1996 these standards will become the 
basis for codification by AIST as Japan Industrial Standards (JIS). 
MITI hopes the national standards will eliminate the production of 
incompatible products by individual Japanese companies that have 
developed EV equipment according to their own standards. MITI also 
expects the parts standards to enable manufacturers to lower costs 
through mass production and to facilitate joint development among 
companies (YOMIURI SHIMBUN 25 Nov 93; NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 15 Jun 
93). 
   Beyond JIS, the ministry also wants to coordinate its standards 
with the International Organization for Standardization and the 
International Electrotechnical Commission in order to facilitate 
international trade (DENKI SHIMBUN 23 Aug 93). JEVA is reportedly 
conducting its domestic standardization activities while keeping an 
eye on overseas developments (ASAHI SHIMBUN 26 Jul 93). Meanwhile 
MITI will adopt the JEVA standards for its Ecostation 2000 plan, 
first applying them to the 13 ecostations slated for startup in 
fiscal year 1993 (YOMIURI SHIMBUN, NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 25 Nov 93). 
   According to YOMIURI SHIMBUN (25 Nov 93), Japan is the first 
country to devise unified EV standards. With companies in Japan, the 
United States, and Europe pursuing their own development plans, such 
elements as recharging times and plug receptacles have been "all 
over the board." Having asked Ford, Germany's Daimler-Benz, and 
other foreign companies to participate in devising the Japanese 
standards, MITI "will call for their adoption as global standards" 
and seek joint EV development as part of the US-Japanese framework 
talks. On 29 November, MITI announced it was setting standards for 
EV rapid recharging systems to be installed at conventional gas 
stations (YOMIURI SHIMBUN 30 Nov 93). On 17 December the Ecostation 
Support Association announced plans to provide 33 million yen in 
subsidies to each of 11 facilities to install EV recharging 
equipment. The association plans to allocate additional subsidies to 
support MITI's proposal to establish some 100 ecostations in Japan 
by fiscal year 1995 (NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 18 Dec 93). 
   Environment Agency Promoting EV Use 
   The Environment Agency (EA) is also seeking to promote the use of 
electric vehicles in Japan. An advisory organization to EA's Air 
Quality Bureau published an interim report in September 1993 that 
proposed combating air pollution by putting 200,000 to 300,000 low- 
pollution vehicles, including 120,000 to 160,000 EVs, on Tokyo 
metropolitan area roads by the year 2000. In November the agency 
sent letters to 128 central and local government offices and related 
organizations in the Tokyo metropolitan area inquiring whether 
officials were considering purchasing low-pollution vehicles for the 
fleet of some 323,000 government vehicles. The agency, which is 
considering launching a new "assistance system," is also 
contemplating using the information as a basis for consultations on 
switching to low-pollution vehicles (SANKEI SHIMBUN 22 Nov 93; 
KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 23 Sep 93; MAINICHI SHIMBUN 24 Sep 93). 
   Local Governments Planning to Use EVs 
   In addition to central government agencies and their auxiliary 
organizations, some 140 local governments throughout Japan are 
already procuring low-pollution vehicles. Osaka reportedly has 
Japan's most advanced EV support structure. Osaka's EV promotion 
committee, which includes the municipal and prefectural governments, 
Japan Storage Battery, Daihatsu Motors, Kansai Electric Power 
Company, and other local public and private organizations, opened 
the world's first rapid recharging stand in spring 1993. With aid 
from MITI, Osaka has to date built a total of 10 recharging stands, 
each within 5 kilometers of another (NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 29 Jun 93; 
ASAHI SHIMBUN 26 Jul 93). In March 1993 the city produced its own EV 
operating manual and in October 1993, Osaka's prefectural government 
announced a tentative plan that proposes obtaining low-pollution 
vehicles, including EVs, for official use to reduce nitrogen oxide 
(N0x) pollution levels by approximately 30 percent by fiscal year 
2000 (ASAHI SHIMBUN 27 Oct 93). The Osaka Science and Technology 
Center is meanwhile at the center of an advanced battery technology 
research forum involving 28 companies that is attempting to develop 
high-performance EV batteries (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 7 May 93). 
   Tokyo is also incorporating electric vehicles into its plans to 
combat pollution. The municipal government announced on 15 November 
a plan to reduce the volume of NOx emissions from vehicles to 33,000 
tons, approximately 63.5 percent lower than the 1990 level, by the 
year 2000; 6,300 tons of the total reduction is to be accomplished 
in cooperation with local governments in Osaka, Kanagawa, and three 
other areas through the introduction of 310,000 low-pollution 
vehicles, including 40,000 EVs and 35,000 natural gas-fueled 
vehicles. The city will also offer subsidies for procurement and 
maintenance (YOMIURI SHIMBUN 16 Nov 93; NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 16 Nov 
93). But an ASAHI SHIMBUN (16 Nov 93) article noted that at that 
time the number of electric and natural gas vehicles combined was 
only 319, a far cry from the target. The article also asserted that 
the cost of such vehicles remains prohibitive even with subsidies 
covering half the price. Despite Tokyo's having budgeted subsidies 
for 55 low-pollution vehicles in fiscal year 1992, subsidies were 
requested for only five vehicles. 
   Local governments in the Chubu region are also promoting EV use. 
In June 1993 Aichi Prefecture, the cities of Nagoya and Toyota, and 
22 private companies formed a study group, called CEV, to examine 
ways to popularize EVs. The roster of companies includes: Daihatsu, 
Suzuki, Toyota, and four other automobile manufacturers; five 
battery producers; Idemitsu Kosan and five other oil/trading 
companies; and Chubu Electric Power and three other 
communications/power companies. Over a three-year period the 
organization will build some 10 rapid recharging stands at public 
utilities, supermarket parking lots, and existing fuel supply 
centers to support the trial operation of approximately 100 
vehicles. The models to be used are EV versions of existing vans: 
Daihatsu's Hijet, Suzuki's Carry, and Toyota's Townace (NIKKAN KOGYO 
SHIMBUN 2 Jun 93; SEISAN TO DENKI Jul 93; ASAHI SHIMBUN 3 Jun 93; 
NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 3 Jun 93). CEV members will use a magnetized 
card that enters the vehicle's voltage and current specifications 
into the recharging stand's vehicle signal system; a vehicle will 
recharge in 30 minutes to over 50 percent of its capacity (NIHON 
KEIZAI SHIMBUN 15 Dec 93). CEV is implementing its plan in 
cooperation with the local gasoline stations chosen by MITI as model 
enterprises for Ecostation 2000 (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 8 Dec 93). 
   Electric Vehicles Stars of Tokyo Motor Show 
   Electric vehicles took center stage this year at the 35th Tokyo 
Motor Show hosted by the MITI-affiliated Japan Automobile 
Manufacturers Association from 24 October to 5 November (KAGAKU 
KOGYO NIPPO 24 Sep 93; NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 21 Oct 93). All nine 
Japanese car makers displayed EVs, which the NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 
article refers to as the industry's "trump card of environmental 
measures" (NIKKEI MATERIALS &amp; TECHNOLOGY Dec 93). 
   NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN (21 Oct 93) also noted that hybrid vehicles 
combining battery technology with other power sources were the 
mainstream" EV offerings. Daihatsu Motor Company for example, 
displayed its 660-cubic-centimeter engine EV Sedan (NIKKEI 
MECHANICAL 13 Dec 93). Honda Motor Company unveiled its EVX, which 
has a top speed of 130 kilometers per hour and features an auxiliary 
battery powered by roof-top solar panels as well as a three-speed 
automatic transmission. Suzuki's EE-10, which combines electric 
power with a 660-cubic-centimeter methanol engine, will feature a 
sodium-sulfur battery that Yuasa Corporation is now developing 
(NIKKEI MATERIALS AND TECHNOLOGY Dec 93). Mitsubishi Motor 
Corporation's ESR uses the Series Hybrid Electric system, which 
combines an alkaline battery with a compact AC induction motor and 
motor controllers, a 1,500-cubic-centimeter internal combustion 
engine for generating electricity, an AC generator, an energy 
regenerative braking system that converts the kinetic energy in 
braking for battery use, and roof-top solar cells. 
   GRAPHIC: color photo of ESR 
   The ESR operates both by battery alone and in hybrid mode when 
the battery runs low and has reportedly reached a top speed of 200 
kilometers per hour and a maximum cruising range of over 500 
kilometers at 40 kilometers per hour (JAPAN 21ST Dec 93). (For 
photographs of the Daihatsu EV Sedan, Honda EVX, and Suzuki EE-10, 
see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 11, 30 Nov 93.) 
   Automakers Aiming for US Market 
   Japanese corporations have been developing electric vehicles with 
the US market in mind. Analysts for the automobile technical journal 
JIDOSHA KOGAKU (Oct 93) and NIKKEI ELECTRONICS (20 Dec 93) note that 
EVs are the only viable option capable of meeting the stringent 
California requirements for zero-emission vehicles, given the 
present state of automotive technology.  One analyst estimates that 
each Japanese company must sell at least 700 EVs to comply with 1998 
California requirements that 2 percent of all cars sold there be 
nonpolluting. He says Japan's auto industry is aiming to develop 
products for fall 1997 to meet the 1998 deadline. 
   Daihatsu has the industry lead in building a mass production 
system for electric vehicles. With over 90 percent of Japan's 
registered on-road EVs, Daihatsu Shatai (Daihatsu Auto Body), the 
company's wholly-owned subsidiary and manufacturer of Daihatsu's 
Hijet van series, reportedly is the only Japanese company with mass- 
production capability.  It plans to produce 400 EVs in fiscal year 
1993, approximately 20 percent more than it produced in 1992. 
Moreover, Daihatsu Shatai is strengthening joint R&amp;D with its parent 

corporation to develop dedicated EV auto body and recharging 
technology (NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 3 Jul 93). 
   Counting on government assistance, Daihatsu is planning to expand 
annual production to 10,000 vehicles by 1995 or 1996. In May the 
company announced plans to develop a one- or two-seat EV measuring 
about 3 meters long by 1 meter wide, weighing less than 500 
kilograms, and featuring a top speed of around 100 kilometers per 
hour. Priced at under 1 million yen ($9,000), the car would sell for 
about one-third the price of the cheapest EVs to date.  Daihatsu's 
vehicle "appears to be the trump card" of MITI's plan to have 
200,000 EVs on the road by the year 2000, according to ASAHI SHIMBUN 
(26 May 93), which also noted that MITI will seek the relaxation of 
tax, registration, and licensing regulations in order to stimulate 
sales. 
   On 19 October Daihatsu and Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO) 
announced the joint development of an experimental four-wheel mini 
EV intended for light commercial transport or personal shopping. The 
vehicle, an improved version of the three-wheel mini-EV KEPCO 
developed in 1989, is 2.4 meters long by 1 meter wide, and weighs 
440 kilograms; it reaches a top speed of 60 kilometers per hour and 
features a fiber-reinforced plastic body and a sealed, six-cell lead 
battery capable of powering the vehicle for a distance of 70 
kilometers on a single charge (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN, NIKKAN KOGYO 
SHIMBUN, YOMIURI SHIMBUN 20 Oct 93). Daihatsu plans to begin selling 
the vehicle in two years for under 1 million yen ($9,000) (HOKKAIDO 
SHIMBUN 20 Oct 93). Daihatsu also hopes to begin selling an improved 
EV Hijet van with a low-maintenance lead battery in March 1994. The 
new version will house a computer system to monitor the battery's 
electrolytic solution, automatically adding distilled water from an 
on-vehicle tank when necessary (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 4 May 93). 
   Daihatsu relies on government procurement of official vehicles 
for sales of its EVs. For example, Daihatsu EV engineer Ariyoshi 
noted that the MITI-affiliated Japan Electric Vehicle Association 
has long provided support through its "test-drive system." In 
addition, the Environment Agency's subsidies to local governments 
for the purchase of electric vehicles has resulted in a modest rise 
in local government EV procurement, according to a Daihatsu 
engineer. Local governments accounted for nearly half the sales of 
Daihatsu's 465 Hijet electric vans from 1990 to 1992. Japan's 
electric power companies and the quasi-public Nippon Telegraph and 
Telephone Corp. accounted for another quarter of the total (NIKKAN 
KOGYO SHIMBUN 24 Jul 93; JIDOSHA GIJUTSU Aug 93). 
   Japan's press has been reporting relatively little on EV 
development efforts by Toyota and Nissan--Japan's Big Two automobile 
manufacturers--compared with its coverage of government EV policies 
and Daihatsu's activities. Within the industrial group centered 
around Toyota, a number of companies--including the previously 
mentioned member company Daihatsu--are developing EV technology 
(JAPAN COMPANY HANDB0OK, FIRST SECTION 5 Nov 93). Nissan is reported 
to be planning to sell 50 Cedric EVs a year beginning as early as 
December 1993 at a cost of 2 to 2.4 million yen ($18,200 to $21,800) 
apiece (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 16 Apr 93); recharging equipment 
costing around one million yen ($9,000) will also be sold. 
   Battery Technology Key to EV Development 
   According to a NIKKEI ELECTRONICS (20 December 93) analyst, 
automotive experts, including most Japanese battery makers, believe 
that breakthroughs in battery technology are necessary to popularize 
electric vehicles. Sealed lead batteries are the "most likely 
candidates" to power the first Japanese EVs in the fall of 1997 to 
meet California's initial requirements for zero emission vehicles, 
but the increasing number of EV sales required by 2003 (10 percent 
of vehicles sold) will necessitate batteries with better 
performance. The analyst reports that Japan's battery makers, 
including those conducting R&amp;D on nickel metal hydride batteries, 
see lithium as the follow-on technology to nickel metal hydride 
(NIKKEI ELECTRONICS 20 Dec 93). 
   Furukawa Battery, Matsushita Battery Industrial, Sanyo Electric, 
and other companies are developing nickel metal hydride battery 
technology. Honda, whose Tokyo Motor Show display included a nickel 
metal hydride battery developed by Ovonic Battery Company and 
Matsushita Battery Industrial, recently concluded an agreement with 
Ovonic for joint development of a next-generation nickel metal 
hydride battery for use in Honda electric vehicles (NIKKAN KOGYO 
SHIMBUN 12 Jan 94). An unidentified source from a battery 
manufacturer complains nevertheless that nickel metal hydride 
battery costs are three to four times those of lead batteries for 
less than twice the energy density. An anonymous Matsushita Battery 
Industrial Company source notes that his company must find ways to 
lower the battery temperature during recharging and to lengthen the 
battery's short life span (NIKKEI ELECTRONICS 20 Dec 93). 
   MITI is already pursuing lithium battery technology. NEDO, an 
organization under the auspices of MITI, is conducting a 10-year 
lithium battery R&amp;D project (1992-2000) through the Engineering 
Research Association for Lithium Battery Energy Storage Technology 
(LIBES). The Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry 
(CRIEPI), a public corporation under ANRE's administration, has 
oversight responsibility for "total system research."  Ten companies 
are responsible for the following areas of research: 
   Long-life battery R&amp;D: Hitachi Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corp., 
Sanyo Electric Co., Yuasa Battery Co. 
High-energy-density battery R&amp;D: Japan Storage Battery Co., 
Matsushita Battery Industrial Co., Nippondenso Co., Toshiba Corp. 
Materials R&amp;D: Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co., Osaka Gas Co. 
(NEDO NEWS May 93) 
   A Japanese journalist, reporting on the contract signed in 
December by the US firm Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, the US 
Department of Energy's Argonne National Laboratory, and the Canadian 
utility Hydro-Quebec to develop a thin-film lithium polymer battery 
for the US Advanced Battery Consortium (USABC), speculated that 
Yuasa Corporation's links to Hydro-Quebec could permit the Japanese 
company "to join indirectly in the USABC development project." Yuasa 
and Hydro-Quebec agreed in January 1992 to work together to develop 
a lithium polymer battery by 1998 (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 17 Dec 93). 
   Sodium-sulfur batteries have some advantages over nickel metal 
hydride ones. They currently have an energy density of 100 watt- 
hours per kilogram, or 2.5 times that of conventional lead 
batteries. Sodium-sulfur batteries also have an output density of 
150 watts per kilogram and a life span of 1,000 cycles, which is 
comparable to that of lead batteries. Yuasa's sodium-sulfur battery 
for the Suzuki EE-10 sandwiches a beta-type alumina (beta-Al203) 
between a sodium anode and a sodium-sulfur (Na2Sx) electrode (NIKKEI 
MATERIALS &amp; TECHNOLOGY Dec 93). 
   GRAPHIC: color photo of sodium-sulfur battery 
   Working with Japan Storage Battery, Nissan has also developed the 
SQC-N, a sealed nickel-cadmium battery with an energy density of 55 
watt-hours per kilogram. The SQC-N, capable of a 40-percent rapid 
recharge in six minutes, is featured in the experimental Nissan FEV 
electric car (KINO ZAIRYO Sep 93). 
   Kyushu Electric Power Company and Tokyo R&amp;D, which has designed 
and produced Tokyo Electric Power Company's IZA and Chubu Electric 
Power Company's Dream Mini (shown below), have developed a miniature 
EV that features a nickel-zinc battery developed by Kyushu Electric 
and Yuasa Corporation. With twice the energy density of conventional 
lead batteries, the new battery gives the vehicle a maximum range of 
about 175 kilometers, roughly one-third better than the 130 
kilometers possible with lead batteries.  Kyushu Electric and Yuasa 
are now working to extend the battery's life, which is only half 
that of lead batteries. Kyushu Electric Power Research Institute, 
the utility's affiliated R&amp;D company, is also seeking to stretch the 

life of nickel-zinc batteries from the present 70 cycles to 400 
cycles. Kyushu Electric is planning to market the vehicle in 1996 
(JIDOSHA KOGAKU Oct 93; DENKI SHIMBUN 23 Aug, 14 Oct 93; NIKKAN 
KOGYO SHIMBUN 15 Oct 93; ASAHI SHIMBUN 17 Oct 93; NIHON KEIZAI 
SHIMBUN 17 Aug 93). 
   GRAPHIC: b/w photo of Dream Mini 
   A team of researchers from the Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Matsushita Electric Industrial Company is developing a thin-film 
battery with composite electrodes using an organic sulfur compound; 
the new battery lasts ten times as long as nickel-cadmium batteries 
(NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 7 Oct 93). 
   EV-Related Products 
   Japanese companies are also developing EV-related products. 
Yokohama Rubber Company has fabricated a low-resistance tire for a 
light van developed by Mitsubishi Motors and Tokyo Electric Power 
Company. Yokohama Rubber, using its light-truck tires as a base, 
devised a new compound and structure to make 10-percent lighter 
tires with 30 percent less rolling resistance. The company 
reportedly sees its deal with Mitsubishi as a way to catch up to 
Toyo Tire &amp; Rubber Company, which had previously begun deliveries of 

EV tires to Toyota and Nissan (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 22 Jun 93). In 
April 1993 Bridgestone announced its Ecopia EV tire, which also 
incorporates a new rubber compound and design, has 30 percent less 
rolling resistance, and is 10 percent lighter than the company's 
previous tires (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 27 Apr 93). 
   In October 1993 Nihon Protector introduced a waterproof, on- 
vehicle recharging device for electric vehicles.  The device, which 
employs "direct high-frequency switching" technology, measures 50 x 
26 x 16 centimeters, weighs 17 kilograms, and plugs into a 2OO-volt, 
30-ampere AC outlet. The recharging mechanism can power an EV for 
approximately 40 kilometers on a one-hour charge and 10 kilometers 
on a 15-minute charge.  Nihon Protector hopes to begin selling the 
device in the summer of 1994 to automobile companies and other 
customers at a price of under 100,000 yen ($910) (NIKKEI SANGYO 
SHIMBUN 8 Jan, 21 Oct 93). 
   Specifications of Japanese Electric Vehicles 
   Daihatsu 
   Rugger (developed by Kansai Electric Power Company) 
Gross curb weight:  2,400 kg 
Load capacity:  not available 
Occupants:  2 
Maximum authorized gross weight:  2,510 kg 
Top speed:  90 kph 
Maximum range:  200 km at 40 kph 
Motor type: DC shunt 
Rated power/voltage/hour:  2OkW/120V/1hr 
Control:  chopper transistor 
Battery type:   lead 
Battery cells, voltage:  10 cells, 120V 
Standard recharging time:  8 hours 
(KINO ZAIRYO Sep 93) 
   Isuzu Motors 
   Co-op EV 2000 
Gross curb weight:  4,850 kg 
Load capacity:  1,250 kg 
Occupants:  2 
Maximum authorized gross weight:  6,220 kg 
Top speed:  110 kph 
Maximum range:  100 km at 40 kph 
Motor type: DC shunt 
Rated power/voltage/hour:  33kW/108V/1hr 
Control:  chopper transistor 
Battery types:  lead and solar 
Capacity, voltage:  15OAh/5hr, 12 V 
Battery cells, voltage:  27 cells, 108V 
Standard recharging time:  6 hours 
(KIN0 ZAIRYO Sep 93) 
   Kyushu Electric Power Company/Tokyo R&amp;D 
   Experimental Vehicle (no name given) 
Total weight:  970 kg 
Occupants:  2 
Top speed:  121 kph 
Maximum range:  175 km 
Motor type: AC 
Battery type:   nickel-zinc 
Standard recharging time:  8 hours 
(DENKI SHIMBUN 14 Oct 93) 
   Mazda Motor Corporation 
   Bongo EV 
Gross curb weight:  1,980 kg 
Load capacity:  not available 
Occupants:  7 
Maximum authorized gross weight:  2,365 kg 
Top speed:  75 kph 
Maximum range:  80 km at 20 kph 
Motor type: DC shunt 
Rated power/voltage/hour:  12kW/90V/1hr 
Control:  chopper thyristor, chopper transistor 
Battery type:   lead 
Capacity, voltage:  105 Ah/5hr, 12V 
Battery cells, voltage:  10 cells, 120V 
Standard recharging time:  8 hours 
(KINO ZAIRYO Sep 93) 
   Shikoku Electric Power Company 
   Pivot (developed by Shikoku Research Institute, Inc.) (previously 
introduced as the Yonden, renamed in Oct 93) 
Gross curb weight:  2,200 kg 
Occupants:  4 
Total weight:   2,420 kg 
Top speed:  100 kph 
Maximum range:  200 km at 40 kph 
Motor type: DC brushless 
Rated output/number of cells:  6.8kW/4 
Voltage/time:   288V/continuous 
Battery type: lead 
Capacity, voltage:  75Ah/5hr, 12V 
Battery cells:  24 cells 
(DENKI KYOKAI ZASSHI Jul 93; DENKI SHIMBUN 18 Oct 93) 
   Suzuki 
   Every Super Multiroof 
Gross curb weight:  1,345 kg 
Load capacity:  not available 
Occupants:  2 or 4 
Maximum authorized gross weight:  1,655 kg 
Top speed:  75 kph 
Maximum range:  230 km at 40 kph 
Motor type: DC shunt 
Rated power/voltage/hour:  14kW/125V/1hr 
Control:  chopper transistor 
Battery type:   nickel-zinc 
Capacity, voltage:  24OAh/3hr, 13.2V 
Battery cells, voltage:  10 cells, 132V 
Standard recharging time:  10 hours 
(KINO ZAIRYO Sep 93) 
   Electric Vehicle Debate 
   The Japanese press has published numerous articles touting the 
advantages of developing electric vehicles. NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN (29 
Jun 93), for example, has described expectations in Japan that EVs 
will play the "main role" among low-pollution vehicles. ANRE 
official Keiichi Yumoto, has called for a comprehensive national 
policy on EVs (SEISAN TO DENKI Jul 93). Some industry 
representatives have nevertheless questioned the benefits of 
electric vehicles. INFODIA (Oct 93), a Mitsubishi Corporation 
journal, recently published an article asserting that higher vehicle 
prices and potential pollution problems resulting from battery 
disposal and increased consumption of electrical power cast doubt on 
the real value of electric vehicles. The article postulated that 
Japanese companies were developing EVs simply to prove their 
environmental credentials while continuing to sell conventional 
automobiles in the United States. A NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN (21 Oct 
93) article suggested that full conversion to electric vehicles is 
not feasible because of high electrical consumption. 
   Other commentators have suggested strategies by which Japan could 
develop and "cash in on" the low-pollution vehicle industry. Asahi 
Research Center, the think tank of Asahi Chemical Industry Co., has 
proposed that MITI accelerate its EV development timetable to avoid 
losing market share in international competition and has called on 
MITI to concentrate recharging stands in selected cities rather than 
both in cities and along highways, as the ministry's plan proposes 
(NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 18 May 93). An unidentified executive in 
Yamato Transport Co., which had begun trial operation of 13 low- 
pollution vehicles, suggested encouraging the purchase of EVs by 
providing "administrative assistance" (YOMIURI SHIMBUN 1 Jun 93). A 
MAINICHI SHIMBUN (28 Sep 93) editorial recently urged the government 
to direct its environmental regulations and preferential policies to 
the popularization of low-pollution vehicles. 
   Stephen M. 733-6343 
   JAPAN: LOW-POLLUTION VEHICLES 
   Japanese industries, backed by government financing, are 
promoting the development and marketing of low-pollution vehicles. 
   Japanese automobile manufacturers and electric power and gas 
companies have been cooperating in government-backed efforts to 
promote the development and sale of low-pollution automobiles, 
including those that use natural gas, hydrogen, methanol, solar 
power, electric batteries and combinations of these as energy 
sources. Much of the current effort focuses on natural gas vehicles. 
   Much of the current Japanese effort to promote the development 
and sale of low-pollution automobiles focuses on natural gas 
vehicles, which use methane-based city gas, and which are 
categorized according to method of fuel storage: compressed natural 
gas vehicles (CNGVs), liquefied natural gas vehicles (LNGVs), and 
absorption natural gas vehicles (ANGVs). As of November 1993, there 
were 123 natural gas vehicles (NGVs) in use in Japan, mostly owned 
by city gas companies; eighteen of them are leased to local 
governments under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport. Most of 
the NGVs operating in Japan are CNGV types (ENERGY Nov 93). 
   Osaka Gas Company plans to help encourage the use of NGVs by 
increasing the number of refueling stations in Kinki region from two 
to six, with a total of 10 new stations to be built in the country 
by 1995 at an estimated cost of 100 to 150 million yen ($900,000 to 
$1.3 million) each. The company also aims to increase the number of 
NGVs in use in the corporate sector from 54 to 300 vehicles by 1995 
(NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 8 Dec 93). In early June Osaka Gas improved 
the output of an NGV test engine to approximately 95 percent of 
gasoline engine output by enlarging the Venturi diameter of the fuel 
supply mixer from the traditional 22 millimeters to 28 millimeters 
and by raising the compression ratio from 9.2:1 to 12:1. The test 
engine was a four-cylinder water-cooled four-stroke in-line spark- 
ignition engine with a displacement of 1,468 cubic centimeters 
(KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 7 Jun 93). 
   Tokyo Gas Company doubled its fiscal year 1993 budget to 1 
billion yen ($9 million) to promote the practical application of NGV 
technology. Osaka Gas, Toho Gas, and Tokyo Gas plan to allocate a 
total budget of some 2 billion yen ($18 million) for NGV promotion 
in fiscal year 1994. Tokyo Gas plans to procure 86 NGVs, 64 for its 
own use and 22 for other organizations to conduct fleet tests in 
fiscal year 1993. The company is to procure about 600 additional 
NGVs by the end of fiscal year 1995 (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 17 Feb 93). 
   Nissan Diesel Motor Company and Nippon Carburetor Company are 
researching ways to address some of the problems associated with CNG 
engines. To keep the gas pressure high enough to run the engine 
smoothly, the companies designed a special mixer based on electronic 
fuel injection equipment developed for gasoline-powered engines and 
a regulator that adjusts the pressure between the cylinder and the 
intake manifold. A microelectronic chip was installed in a CNG bus 
engine to maintain the fuel/air ratio at a constant level and a 
turbocharger was used to boost horsepower to a maximum of 235. In 
Nissan's road tests of the new CNG bus, NOx and CO2 emissions were 
reduced by 68 percent and 2 to 3 percent, respectively, compared 
with diesel engines (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 15 Dec 93). 
   GRAPHIC: Line drawing of a CNG lean-burn engine 
   Working with Cataler Industrial Company, Toyota Motor Corporation 
has developed a catalyst that absorbs NOx using lean-burn 
technology. More than 60 percent of the NOx is removed from exhaust 
and fuel efficiency improves by 2 to 4 percent when using the 
catalyst. The catalyst is a porous material to which alkaline rare- 
earth metals and precious metals such as platinum and rhodium 
adhere. The companies have tested the catalyst for its purification 
efficiency, reliability and service life and plan to use it with 
1,600-cc-, 1,800-cc- and 2,O0O-cc-class Carina lean-burn engines 
(NIHON KOGYO SHIMBUN, NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 26 Nov 93). 
   Automobile manufacturers have also been accelerating the 
development of hydrogen-powered vehicles. For example, Mazda Motor 
Corporation hopes to roadtest a hydrogen-fueled vehicle with a 
rotary engine by 1995 and to market the vehicle by the year 2000. 
   GRAPHIC: Color photo of Mazda rotary engine 
   CAPTION: Mazda hopes to market a vehicle with this type of engine 
by 1995 
   The company's Kapera Cargo model, whose performance matches that 
of Mazda's HR-X2 hydrogen-powered prototype (exhibited at the Tokyo 
Motor Show in October) (see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 11, 30 Nov 93), 
is slated for testing at Nippon Steel Corporation's Hirohata 
Ironworks. Mazda also recently tested its newly developed vehicle 
powered by a hydrogen fuel cell (JIDOSHA GIJUTSU Aug 93; NIKKAN 
KOGYO SHIMBUN 18 Nov 93). 
   The Japanese government has increased funding for projects to 
popularize low-pollution vehicles. The table below compares MITI's 
fiscal year 1993 expenditures to its fiscal year 1994 budget 
requests for these projects, including three new ventures (NIKKEI 
SANGYO SHIMBUN 4 Oct 93). (For previous reporting on efforts to 
develop Japan's electric vehicle industry, see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 
No. 6, 31 May 93.) 
   MITI-Funded Low-Pollution Vehicle Projects 

Agency          Project          FY93    FY94      % change 
                                 (billion yen) 

NEDO            Li Batteries     0.685   1.264     +84.5 
Petroleum       Methanol 
Energy          Vehicle 
Center          Testing          1.428   1.285     -10 
Japan Gas       NGV Develop.     0.095   0.150     +57.9 
Assoc.          NGV Promotion    0       0.600      *** 
Ecostation      Ecostation 
                2000             0.850   1.634     +92 
Japan Auto.     Hybrid 
Research Inst.  Vehicle          0       0.100      *** 
Japan Dev.      LPV Promotion    O       3.3        *** 
Bank/ 
Hokkaido- 
Tohoku 
Dev. Finance 
Corp. 



   *** Denotes new venture 
   The first of MITI's new ventures involves the development of 
hybrid electric vehicles, whereas the other two seek to popularize 
low-pollution vehicles. For example MITI has requested 100 million 
yen ($900,000) to subsidize half the cost of converting gasoline- 
powered cars to natural gas for auto leasing companies, with the 
Japan Gas Association acting as the intermediary. The ministry is 
also lobbying for 3.3 billion yen ($9.6 million) for the leasing of 
fuel supply facilities and for low-rate financing to encourage the 
purchase of some 1,500 low-pollution vehicles beginning in 1994 at 
an average cost of 4 million yen ($36,000) each (for an electric 
vehicle). MITI's FY94 funding, if approved by the Ministry of 
Finance, will total 8.33 billion yen ($75 million), nearly three 
times the FY93 expenditure of 3.058 billion yen ($27.5) (NIHON 
KEIZAI SHIMBUN 7 Oct 93; NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 4 Oct 93). 
   Japan's Environment Agency also plans to establish a policy on 
low-pollution automobile technologies by the end of 1994 to channel 
car makers' R&amp;D efforts into vehicles that comply with stringent 
zero-emissions requirements being implemented in the United States. 
The Ministry of Transport is meanwhile scheduled to begin a four- 
year plan to develop technologies to convert diesel trucks to 
compressed natural gas vehicles next year (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 5 Nov 
93, 1 Dec 93). 
   Ritsuko G. 733-6333/Stephen M. 733-6343 
   REPORTS 
   REPORTS surveys science and technology trends as detailed in 
articles, books, and journals. It also includes summaries and 
listings of articles and books that may serve as potential sources 
for future research. 
   EUROPE:  CAUTIOUS APPROACH TO LOW-POLLUTION VEHICLES 
   Tougher clean-air standards to be implemented in both California 
and Europe by the year 2000 will dictate the sale of zero-emission 
and ultralow-emission vehicles. European automakers are taking a 
cautious approach in preparing for the new standards. In many cases 
this means converting conventional models to electric drive; in 
other cases it means designing scaled-down models with smaller, less 
polluting internal combustion engines. The most advanced designs, 
now on the drawing boards, will not be marketed before the year 
2000. 
   Uncertain consumer acceptance, the absence of a recharging 
infrastructure, and lack of batteries capable of providing 
satisfactory range have combined with high price tags to cause many 
European automakers to take a conservative approach to electric 
vehicles, according to an article in INDUSTRIES ET TECHNIQUES (Nov 
93). Even large companies have tended to do no more than electrify 
the smallest of their utility-vehicle production models and produce 
them in limited numbers. Utility vehicles are relatively easy to 
convert, because they are technically less sophisticated and better 
able to accommodate today's heavy, bulky batteries. 
   Renault plans to begin series production of its Master model in 
March 1994 and its Express model in October of the same year, 
although neither production line will exceed 1,000 vehicles per 
year. Both are powered by lead-gel batteries. Electric versions of 
the Renault Clio and Peugeot's 106 and AX models, slated to hit 
showrooms in 1995, will be produced only in very limited numbers as 
well. The Clio and the 106, four-seat passenger cars with in-city 
ranges of 80 and 90 kilometers respectively, are powered by nickel- 
cadmium batteries. The 106 and AX models will be tested by 50 
drivers in La-Rochelle for a year and a half prior to their launch 
on the market. During this time the city will also be able to test 
its network of smart-card recharging stations that will provide slow 
charging at parking lots and fast charging at selected gas stations. 
   GRAPHIC: color photo of electric Peugeot 106 
   Renault, Citroen, and Fiat all have cars on the drawing board 
that are designed for electric propulsion (the Zoom, the Citela, and 
the Downtown) but have no immediate plans for series production and 
marketing. Other companies, such as BMW, have designed cars with 
hybrid electric and internal combustion drives (see PERSPECTIVES 
Vol. 7 No. 4, 30 Apr 92). In all cases, price is a problem. Demand 
remains low, so production numbers will be few, keeping prices high. 
   The table below lists new European designs for passenger vehicles 
planned for introduction in the year 2000. 


Company   Model     Seats  Drive      Battery  City Range     Max. 
Speed 
                                                  (km)       (kph) 
Citroen   CiteIa    2      DC/2OkW    NiCd        110         110 
                                      14 kW 
Fiat      Downtown  3      2 x syn-   NaS         190         100 
                           chronous   165kg 
                           AC/14kW 
Opel      Twin      4      2 x three  LiC         250         120 
                           -phase     250 kg 
                           AC/2OkW 
Renault   Zoom      2      autosyn-   NiCd        150         120 
                           chronous   350 kg 
                           AC/ 25kW 
VW        Chico     4      hybrid;    NiCd         **          60 
                           AC/6kW     72V/3OAh 
Volvo     ECC       4      hybrid;    NiCd         85         175 
                           35kW       120V; 315kg 


   ** information unavailable 

   GRAPHIC: color photo of Opel Twin 
   To meet both the tougher air-quality standards of the year 2000 
and the lower fleet average fuel consumption requirements also 
expected by then, European automakers are designing small vehicles 
to be powered initially by small internal combustion engines--which 
inherently emit less pollution--and later by electric propulsion 
(SCIENCE &amp; VIE Nov 93). Small cars are a familiar tradition for most 

European automakers, but some builders of large luxury cars are 
having to design scaled-down models for the first time. The Vision A 
minivan (shown below), a Mercedes designed to compete with vehicles 
such as the Renault Twingo, is slated to hit the market around 1996. 
Its engine, a three-cylinder, 1.2-liter, 55-horsepower experimental 
model, is under the passengers' feet. The Vision A's under-floor 
area can also accommodate a nickel chloride/sodium battery pack, a 
54-horsepower asynchronous motor, an electronic control module, and 
bulky cooling equipment for the electric version. The prototype has 
an aluminum body, which saves about 70 kilograms in weight compared 
with conventional steel structures. However, Mercedes admits an 
aluminum body will not be feasible for the production model, so the 
fuel economy will be less spectacular than the city/highway average 
of 3.8 liters per 100 kilometers (about 62 miles per gallon) claimed 
for the diesel-powered prototype. 
   GRAPHIC: color photo of Vision A 
   The Vision A by Mercedes is 3.35 meters long, 1.66 meters wide, 
1.57 meters high, and weighs 715 kilograms (gasoline version) or 735 
kilograms (diesel version) 
   Ioan M. 733-6334 
   NETHERLANDS/GERMANY:  CLEAN MANUFACTURING FOR ELECTRONICS 
INDUSTRY 
   Siemens' Laboratory for Production Techniques in Oostkamp, 
Netherlands is designing environmentally friendly processes for 
manufacturing electronic subassemblies. According to an article in 
the December 1993 issue of the Dutch publication TECHNIVISIE, 
researchers began a project in 1988 to develop environmentally 
friendly materials for manufacturing electrical appliances, which 
led to the development of injection-molded components with 
integrated conductive paths. The technology combines the functions 
of electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) shielding, heat removal, and 
conductors between connector pins using a strong, heat-resistant, 
injectable plastic. Researchers metallized the plastic with a copper 
layer, developed a three-dimensional conductor using a laser-based 
process, and designed a method to solder without causing damage. 
Siemens uses the technology to fabricate the substrate for a 
programmable logic control (PLC) circuit. 
   Siemens' new method of PLC fabrication offers significant 
advantages compared with the previous technique. The new process 
reduces the number of components from 11 to just one, and it uses 
only two materials--copper and plastic--both of which are 
recyclable. Siemens' process is also shorter and the company expects 
lower production costs if it can mass-produce the PLCs. A fourth 
advantage of this new process is that 100-micron laser structuring 
allows direct integration of surface-mounted devices, bare 
integrated circuits, or microengineering components. 
   Siemens has yet to produce a prototype PLC but plans to do so 
using stereolithography. Researchers are optimistic about the 
method's marketability, and even though it remains in the design 
phase, Siemens at Oostkamp has offered to teach other electronics 
manufacturers how to integrate the new fabrication method into their 
own products. 
   Siemens researchers have also developed a new software package 
that analyzes the environmental impact of various electronic 
assembly manufacturing processes. The software is designed to help 
manufacturers and distributors of electrical and electronic 
appliances ensure that their products are completely recyclable in 
compliance with Germany's January 1994 recycling legislation. 
Siemens-Nixdorf has already begun marketing the new software. 
   Renee McG. 733-6339 
   CHINA: ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY CARBON/CARBON COMPOSITE 
   Researchers in the Materials Science and Engineering Department 
at Northwest Polytechnical University (NPU) in Xian have developed a 
crosslinking catalytic method to modify the matrix of domestic 
industrial mesothermal (coal tar) pitch, which results in an 
improved carbon/carbon (C/C) composite. The NPU method, described in 
an article in the Beijing technical journal GAO JISHU TONGXUN (Sep 
93), will not damage equipment and is not harmful to human health. 
The method rearranges the small-molecule hydrocarbons (arenes) in 
the pitch matrix into a large planar molecular network, increasing 
the carbon-to-hydrogen ratio (C/H) and improving the carbon yield. 
The method also results in greater compressive strength at both room 
temperature and high temperatures. The composite--which exhibits 
better material integrity, lower porosity, and better heat 
resistance than earlier-generation composites--is made from the 
modified pitch as matrix precursor by constant-pressure soaking and 
carbonization technology. 
   The technique uses industrial mesothermal pitch (softening 
temperature 82 degrees Celsius, average molecular weight 460) made 
by the Wuzhu Steel Company. The test agents are commercially pure 
chemical reagents.  The pitch is first pulverized, then mixed with 
the cross-linking catalyst--idealIy formaldehyde monomer or para- 
toluene sulfonic acid--and dissolved in a solvent. This is done in 
argon where the solution is heated in an oil bath and then rapidly 
cooled. For comparison, both modified and unmodified pitch are used 
as matrix precursors. They are soaked, then carbonized to make two 
different C/C composites. Both composites are analyzed for C/H 
value, carbon yield, softening point, and weight-loss onset 
temperature (thermal gravimetric analysis), as well as for 
compressive strength at both room temperature (90-degree direction) 
and high temperature (900 degrees Celsius, 90-degree direction, in 
air). Results are given in the table below. 
   Pitch Properties, Before and After Modification 


      C/H      Carbon Softening    Temp. at          Compressive 
      (atomic yield  point         onset of          strength (MPa) 
      ratio)   (%)   (deg. C)      weight      Rm. temp.  High temp. 
                                   loss 
                                   (deg. C) 
Pre- 
modif. 1.62    50.0    82           220          95         82 
Post- 
modif. 2.01    85.5   108           302         200        191 
Increased 
rate 
(%)   24.1     71.0    31.7          37.3       110.5      132.9 



   Note:  all values are averaged. 
   Thomas T. 733-6342 
   JAPAN: CLEAN ENERGY POLICY, EXPENDITURES 
   Japanese government ministries are departing from their usual 
inter-ministerial squabbling over policy and budget issues and are 
cooperating to promote the application of new energy technologies 
such as photovoltaic power generation and clean-energy vehicles. The 
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MITI), the Ministry of Construction 
(MOC), the Ministry of Transport (MOT), the Ministry of Home Affairs 
(MHA), and the Environment Agency (EA) are jointly proposing 
strategies for a low-interest loan system to encourage 
commercialization of low-pollution vehicles and for the 
incorporation of photovoltaic power and other energy conservation 
systems into residential housing. MITI and MHA are also intensifying 
their efforts to promote wind power generation and the use of waste 
materials to generate power. 
   The fiscal year 1993 Science and Technology Research Survey 
report published by the Management and Coordination Agency in the 
Office of the Prime Minister says that fiscal year 1992 energy 
research expenditures totaled some 1.05 trillion yen ($9.4 billion), 
a 7.4-percent increase over the fiscal year 1991 figure. More than 
8,000 organizations, including companies capitalized at over 100 
million yen and scientific research organizations and universities, 
participate in the agency's annual survey. The following table shows 
fiscal year 1992 energy research expenditures. 


Research Area                Fiscal Year 1992 Expenditure 
                                     (billion yen) 

Fossil energy                        95.1 
  Petroleum                          46.2 
  Natural gas                         7.3 
  Coal                               35.2 
  Other                               6.4 
Natural energy                       35.6 
  Geothermal                          4 
  Solar                              22 
  Ocean                               1.3 
  Wind                                1.5 
  Biomass                             4.9 
  Other                               1.9 
Nuclear energy                      488.2 
 Power generation                   205.3 
 Multipurpose reactors               16.7 
 Nuclear fuel cycle                 109.5 
 Nuclear fusion                      50.1 
 Nuclear powered ships                1.7 
 Radiation use                       26.6 
 Radiation safety                    42.7 
 Other                               35.6 
Energy conservation                 411.2 
 Industrial sector                   41.5 
 Home affairs                        40.8 
 Transportation                     254.5 
 Energy conservation/storage         54.1 
 Hydrogen energy                      7.4 
 Other                               12.9 
Other                                17.8 
Total                             1,047.9 



   (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 3 Dec 93, 14 Dec 93) 
   Junko A. 733-6346 
   JAPAN: FUEL CELLS 
   Fuel cells convert chemical energy directly into electrical 
energy, producing electric power from the chemical reaction between 
the electrolyte and fossil fuel. Because fuel cells require no steam 
cycle, they are efficient power generators, reaching about 80- 
percent efficiency when exhaust heat is added. Fuel cell-powered 
facilities can be located inland because the cells require no 
cooling water. They create a minimum amount of noise and emit little 
carbon dioxide (CO2) or nitrogen oxide (NOx) (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 
29 Sep 93. 
   Fuel cells are thought to have considerable potential for use in 
large power plants, cogeneration systems, on-site public and 
residential facilities, and electric vehicles. So far, 76 phosphoric 
acid-type fuel cell power plants (18,500 kilowatts) have been 
installed in Japan (NIKAAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 
   Led by MITI's Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 
fuel cell development projects have been under way since 1981. The 
New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization 
(NEDO), a MITI-affiliated R&amp;D organization, is actually responsible 

for granting R&amp;D contracts to various companies and research 
corporations (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 
   Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cells (PAFCs) have been the object of the 
most intensive development and testing in Japan. Two 200-kilowatt 
normal-pressure PAFC pilot plants--one in Osaka and the other on 
Okinawa--have operated continuously for 13,000 hours and 8,500 
hours, respectively. A 5,O00-kilowatt pressurized-type fuel cell 
power plant under construction at Kansai Electric Power Company's 
Amagasaki Technoland is scheduled to begin operating in fiscal year 
1994. A 1,O0O-kilowatt normal pressure on-site plant is being built 
at the Tokyo Gas Co. Research Institute and is scheduled for 
operation in fiscal year 1995. In addition, some thirty 50- to 100- 
kilowatt plants will have been constructed by 31 March 1994 for 
field tests (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 
   The LP Gas Promotion Center and Fuji Electric Co. have developed 
a 100-kilowatt prototype PAFC plant that uses butane as fuel. Butane 
is about 10 percent cheaper than propane, and propane can also be 
used for the fuel cells designed for butane. Previous problems of 
damage to the reformer catalyst caused by the use of butane have 
been solved by substituting a special precious metal catalyst. The 
efficiency of the butane fuel cell is expected to be about 40 
percent, generally the same as that of natural gas or propane gas 
fuel cells. Overall development cost is estimated at 550 million yen 
(about $5 million), including evaluation tests on design and 
operation scheduled for 1994 (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 22 Dec 93). 
   After PAFCs, the next type of fuel cell targeted for development 
is expected to be the molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC). In fiscal 
year 1994 NEDO is scheduled to begin development of a 1,000-kilowatt 
power plant based on MCFC technology (KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 9 Sep 93). 
   NEDO recently claimed a world-record 129 kilowatts of electric 
power generated using a stack of 102 MCFC cells with electrode areas 
of 1 square meter (see PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8 No. 11, 30 Nov 93). At 
the same time, NEDO tested a normal-pressure internal-reformer-type 
cell stack with electrode areas of 0.5 square meters in which 
natural gas can be used; this stack generated 33 kilowatts. NEDO has 
also operated a 5-kilowatt internal-reformer-type cell stack for 
more than 10,000 continuous hours with a voltage drop of 0.5 percent 
per 1,000 hours (Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 
   MITI's AIST and its MCFC Power Generation System Technology 
Consortium have succeeded in putting MCFCs to practical use. The 
consortium includes equipment manufacturers and utility companies 
(see table). A 100-kilowatt MCFC plant located at the Central 
Research Institute of Electric Power Industry's Akagi Experimental 
Center in Gunma Prefecture achieved 0.8 volt per square centimeter 
of electrode area and 150 milliamperes of current for 1,000 hours of 
operation. Even then, electric output dropped by a little over 1 
percent. The Consortium was to begin drafting a design for the 
world's first 1,O0O-kilowatt experimental plant by the end of 1993. 
The electricity generated is expected to cost 14 to 15 yen (about 13 
cents) per kilowatt and power generation efficiency should reach 54 
percent, with an overall energy efficiency of 76 percent--figures 
that are thought to be commercially viable (NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN 8 
Nov 93). 
   Solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs) have a power generation efficiency 
of 60 percent, about 1.5 times that of large thermal power plants. 
Not only do they emit almost no NOx, but exhaust heat temperature is 
high, making them ideal for cogeneration systems in urban areas 
(NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 24 Dec 93). 
   Basic research and development of S0FCs started in fiscal year 
1989 and was aimed at developing a flat-plate cell stack capable of 
generating more than 10 kilowatts by fiscal year 1997. A 500-watt 
stack is now being developed using cells with an electrode area of 
200 square centimeters (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). Osaka Gas 
Company is working toward producing a 5-kilowatt cell module 
prototype in 1995. 
   According to NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN (14 Dec 93), Chubu Electric 
Power Company and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries have claimed a record 
in generating power continuously for 7,000 hours using two stacks of 
7.5- x 7.5-centimeter advanced SOFCs. These cells feature monolithic 
layers of electrolyte, fuel electrode (cathode), and air electrode 
(anode). This reduces the surface area of electrodes coming into 
contact with one another by half, thereby decreasing the drop in 
power output to 1/10 that of conventional SOFCs. Each cell has a 
projected electrode area of 25 square centimeters, resulting in a 
0.5-watt output density--three times that of conventional SOFCs. 
   Meanwhile Toho Gas Company has claimed a world record for output 
density, achieving 1.61 watts per square centimeter for a single 
cell test-produced for a flat-plate SOFC stack (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 
27 Dec 93). 
   Initial research for solid polymer fuel cells, or proton exchange 
membranes, under way since fiscal year 1992, is aimed at development 
of 1-kilowatt cell technology by fiscal year 1995. At present a 200- 
watt stack of cells with electrode areas of 100 square centimeters 
is being developed (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 
   For fuel cells to be commercially viable, both longevity and 
performance must meet certain standards. In December 1993, a report 
on the prospects for clean energy by the Advisory Committee on 
Energy and ANRE's Electricity Utility Industry Council estimated a 
fuel-cell-generated power supply of 160,000 kilowatts in the year 
2000. This figure was in sharp contrast to a June 1990 estimate of 
1.2 million kilowatts. According to ANRE, the 1990 estimate badly 
misjudged the technical difficulty of dealing with cell longevity. 
The objective was a life of 40,000 hours (five years) for a cell 
stack and reformer catalyst, but the best achieved so far is 15,000 
hours of operation at 0.08 watt per square centimeter in 1987 
(KAGAKU KOGYO NIPPO 6, 13 Dec 93). 

   FUEL CELL R&amp;D PARTICIPANTS 


ANRE/AI ST 
      NEDO            PAFC Develop.  PAFC Consortium, Fuji Electric, 
                                     Co., Toshiba, Hokkaido Electric 
                                     Power Co., Tohoku EPC, Tokyo 
                                     EPC, Chubu EPC, Hokuriku EPC, 
                                     Kansai EPC, Chugoku EPC, 
                                     Shikoku EPC, Kyushu EPC, 
                                     Central Research Inst. of 
                                     Electric Power Industry 
                                     (CRIEPI), Tokyo Gas Co., Toho 
                                     Gas Co., Osaka Gas Co., Seibu 
                                     Gas Co., Inst. of Applied 
                                     Energy 

                      MCFC Develop.  MCFC Consortium, Hitachi Ltd., 
                                     Ishikawaj ima-Harima Heavy 
                                     Industries, Mitsubishi Electric 
                                     Corp. (MELCO), Yokogawa 
                                     Electric Corp., Fuji Electric 
                                     Co., Ube Industries, Ebara 
                                     Corp., Chiyoda Chemical 
                                     Engineering &amp; Construction Co., 

                                     Toshiba, Kobe Steel, Toyo 
                                     Engineering, Institute of 
                                     Electric Power Industry, Japan 
                                     Research &amp; Development Center 
                                     for Metals, Mitsubishi 
                                     Materials, Nippon Kokan, Nissin 
                                     Steel Co., Sumitomo Metal 
                                     Mining Co., Kawasaki Heavy 
                                     Industries, Matsushita 
                                     Electric, Electric Power 
                                     Dev. Co. 
                      SOFC Develop.  Fuji Electric, Sanyo Electric, 
                                     Fine Ceramics Center, Fujikura 
                                     Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy 
                                     Industries, Murata Mfg. Co., 
                                     Mitsui Engineering &amp; 
                                     Shipbuilding Co., CRIEPI, 
                                     Electric Power Dev. Co., JRCM, 
                                     Sumitomo Precision Products 
                                     Co., Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., 
                                     Kobe Steel, Kubota Corp., Ebara 
                                     Corp. 
                      SPFC Develop.  Toshiba, MELCO, Sanyo Electric, 
                                     Asahi Chemical Industry Co., 
                                     Asahi Glass Co., Hitachi, Ltd., 
                                     Sumitomo Electric Industries, 
                                     Aisin Seiki Co., Imura Research 
                                     Institute for Materials 
                                     Development 
      Government Institutes          Electrotechnical Lab. 
                                     Government Industrial Research 
                                     Institute in Osaka, National 
                                     Institute of Materials &amp; 
                                     Chemical Research, National 
                                     Institute for Resources and 
                                     Environment 


   Junko A. 733-6346 
   SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 
   KOREA: NUCLEAR SAFETY WHITE PAPER 
   A special issue of the JPRS Report series: SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/KOREA entitled "White Paper on Nuclear Energy Safety" 
(JPRS-KST-93-001, 22 Dec 93) published by the Korea Institute of 
Nuclear Safety, Ministry of Science and Technology, presents 
information on Korea's nuclear energy safety management system. The 
report also provides the status of selected Korean R&amp;D projects in 
the field of nuclear energy technology for 1991. This is the premier 
issue of a new FBIS report covering Korean Science and Technology 
Issues. This report will be published on an irregular basis. 
   Shireen H. 733-6346 
   JAPAN: ELECTRIC VEHICLES 
   A special issue of the JPRS report series SCIENCE &amp; 
TECHNOLOGY/JAPAN entitled "Electric Vehicle Policy, Technology 
Developments" (JPRS-JST-93-091-L, 12 Nov 93) presents information on 
Japanese government and corporate efforts to develop competitive 
electric vehicles. 
   Stephen M. 733-6343 
   PROCEEDINGS 
   The Technology Issues Division has acquired the proceedings and 
other conference-related papers listed below, copies of which are 
available upon request for a period of six months from the date of 
this PERSPECTIVES--contact Chris R. X6500. 
   All contractor requests must be received in writing, by letter 
(FBIS/GIG/TID, PO Box 2604, Washington DC 20013) or fax ((703) 834- 
3847), on the sponsoring agency's letterhead and signed by the 
contracting officer technical representative. 
   Please use the number in parentheses at the end of the paragraph 
when requesting proceedings. 
   ENERGEX '93, THE FIFTH INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONFERENCE, held from 
18 to 22 October 1993 in Seoul, South Korea. The six-volume set of 
proceedings in English comprises about 250 papers by authors from 
Europe, Asia, the former Soviet Union, and the United States. The 
volumes are entitled: 
I.   Keynote Address, Plenary Sessions, and Participants List 
II.  Rational Use of Energy 
III. New and Renewable Sources of Energy 
IV.  Fossil Fuels and Clean Fuel Technologies 
V.   Environmental Control and Waste Recycling 
VI.  Energy Policies and Economics 
(v9nl-1) 
   SEMICON/KOREA 93 TECHNICAL SYMPOSIUM, held 9 and 10 November 1993 
in Seoul, South Korea. The two-volume set of proceedings contain 37 
papers in English by authors from Korea, Japan, Belgium, Israel, and 
the United States on Iithography, evaluation technology, thin films, 
manufacturing science, and compound semiconductors. (v9n1-2) 
   KOREA TELECOM INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM '93, held from 3 to 5 
November 1993 in Seoul, South Korea. The 288-page proceedings 
contains 39 papers in English by authors from Korea, Japan, Germany, 
Belgium, Poland, Canada, China, the United Kingdom, and the United 
States on management issues such as requirements; management of 
distributed systems; network management; service management, and 
management tools and applications. (v9n1-3) 
   SMMIB 93, EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SURFACE MODIFICATION 
OF METALS BY ION BEAMS, held from 13 to 17 September 1993 in 
Kanazawa Japan. The 209-page volume of proceedings in English 
contains 179 abstracts of papers and poster sessions by authors from 
Europe, Japan, China, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Uzbekistan, 
Kazakhstan, Lithuania, India, and the United States. Topics covered 
include fundamentals of surface modification, properties of ion- 
beam-modified metals, novel techniques of ion implantation, thin 
films, and technical applications. (v9n1-4) 
GIG/rmcg  cka 08/1744z  feb 

