Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] An accusation was made in the Amazon that 
high-quality wood smuggled by a U.S. company is being used as 
railroad ties in the United States. 
  [Begin recording] [unidentified reporter] The office of the 
U.S. company (Hatch Main) was located in a room of this hotel in 
downtown Manacapuru, 80 km from Manaus. The company owners 
disappeared but the last shipment of wood ready for shipment was 
left on the banks of the Solimoes River. The people living in 
the area told Ibama [Brazilian Institute for the Environment and 
Renewable Natural Resources] inspectors that the U.S. company 
(Hatch Main) has been buying wood from the region's Indians for 
more than eight months. 
  The inspectors discovered that the wood was shipped 
clandestinely directly to the United States, and that because of 
the wood's condition they believe it would be used for railroad 
ties. Ibama inspectors believe all the wood smuggled by the 
company was enough to build at least 300 km of railroad tracks. 
The shipment seized by Ibama, which is worth almost 6 million 
real cruzeiros, has more than 1,000 railroad ties of 
macaranduba, which is a high-quality wood that is becoming rare 
in the Amazon. The Federal Police now will investigate the 
whereabouts of the Americans and try to discover who was 
facilitating the shipment. [end recording] 

