Article   Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on Peruvian economic developments monitored through 28 
February. Source is cited in parentheses following each item. 
  The State Petroleum Agency, Petroperu, reported a 
6.7-percent 
increase in oil production in January when it reached an average 
daily yield of 132,916 barrels. Prospects for 1994 will be 
approximately 130,000 barrels a day. The average for 1993 was 
125,000 barrels a day, which represents a 9-percent increase 
over 1992. Energy and Mines Minister Daniel Hokama stated that 
proven oil reserves will increase 10 percent in 1994 and will 
reach 420 billion barrels. (Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1941 
GMT 23 Feb 94) 
  The Public Enterprises for Fishing Certificates, Cerper, was 
privatized in only seven minutes. Drocasa made the purchase for 
$1.601 million, $1,000 over the requested minimum. Drocasa was 
the sole bidder. In another report, Juan De la Piedra, legal 
representative in our country for Business Software Alliance, 
said that Peru could be subject to sanctions for allowing 
computer programing software piracy. He added that Peru should 
respect Decision No. 351, which regulates copyright and authors' 
rights in the Cartagena Agreement, otherwise Peru could be fined 
by the United States. (Lima Global de Television Network in 
Spanish 0100 GMT 26 Feb 94) 

