Language: <F P=105> German </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Deggendorf (DDP/ADN) -- The 250 delegates of the 
"party miniconference" of the CSU [Christian Social Union] has 
adopted the party's manifesto on the elections to the European 
Parliament, with one vote against. The strategy paper lays down 
the critical stance of the CSU on European integration, which in 
their view is proceeding too fast. There will be no federal 
Europe with the CSU. Rather, the party sees its task as being to 
restrict the "presumptuous centralism and rampant bureaucracy" 
of Brussels. 
  The CSU agreed to European integration in principle. The 
European Union is seen as being in the interest of Bavaria and 
Germany. However, efforts will have to be made in the future to 
ensure that burdens are shared more fairly and Germany is freed 
from the role of Euro-financier. The introduction of a European 
currency is also viewed with skepticism. The CSU puts stability 
before speed, the position paper says. There will only be a 
European currency if it is as stable as the German mark. 
  The CSU wants to see the subsidiary principle realized in a 
"Europe of regions." Brussels must only be given responsibility 
for areas that cannot be settled at the national level. This 
applies to foreign and security policy, the fight against 
organized crime, approaches to the influx of asylum-seekers and 
refugees, and transport and environmental issues. 

