Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

  [Text] Toshiba Corp. has developed a freezer which can cool 
objects down to minus 269 C without the use of liquid helium. 
  With this freezer, the company has designed a more compact 
and easy-to-maintain superconducting magnet ensemble for use in 
applications which require an extremely strong magnetic 
field--such as the magnetic resonance imaging devices used in 
medicine, and the propulsion system used by maglev trains. 
  Toshiba used the relatively inexpensive niobium-titanium 
superconducting material for the magnet in its ensemble. This 
material must be cooled down to minus 269 C before it shows 
superconductivity. Liquid helium can be used to cool the 
material down this far, but this technique poses several 
problems. First, it results in larger equipment, and second, an 
expert technician is needed to handle the liquid helium. 
  There has been much research on the development of freezers 
which can accomplish the task without the use of liquid helium. 
But until Toshiba's announcement, the best that could be managed 
was a temperature of minus 263 C, which is not cold enough to 
achieve superconductivity in a niobium-titanium superconducting 
material. 
  Toshiba succeeded in reaching liquid helium temperature by 
improving both the cooling and the heat insulating efficiency of 
its freezer. For example, the company used the new material 
erbium-3-nickel for the heat exchanger. 

