Language: <F P=105> Swahili </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report from the press review] </F>
  [Text] On the front page of today's Sunday edition of the 
MZALENDO newspaper, we read that 12,000 persons have been 
arrested in connection with drug dealing. The business of drug 
trafficking increases instead of decreasing. 
  The number of drug dealers arrested in this country has 
increased from four in 1982 to 12,000 persons in 1990, according 
to reports released by the Immigration Department. 
  According to this department, those arrested for dealing in 
drugs such as mandrax and heroin include young children, some of 
them girls. Police officers said that five packets of mandrax 
were seized in 1960 and over seven tonnes were seized in 1993. 
A police spokesman added that this is just a very small 
proportion of the drugs being trafficked through Tanzania's 
ports, airports, and roads. The police spokesman said that most 
of the drugs are routed via southern Africa to the European 
markets. The police statement added that bribery and corruption 
allowed the drug business to flourish in Tanzania. A bundle of 
$5,000, equivalent to 2.5 million Tanzania shillings, was enough 
to make some of the police and customs officers allow the drugs 
in and to turn a blind eye which enables the drug dealers to 
continue with their business, bringing the businessmen great 
benefits, concludes MZALENDO. 

