Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Sverdlovsk Oblast Statistical Administration: </F>
"Gaydar Would Call It Stabilization...On the Socioeconomic 
Position of Sverdlovsk Oblast in 1993"] 
  [Text] In 1993 enterprises of the oblast produced 5.4737 
trillion rubles [R] worth of products in current prices, which 
is 6.5 times more than last year's production volume. 
  In comparable prices, the volumes of industrial production 
were 17 percent below the 1992 level, and the reduction of 
volume in 1992 as compared to the level of the preceding year 
was 27.4 percent, that is, the rates of reduction have slowed 
up. At the same time the highest rates of reduction of volumes 
of production of products occurred during the first and fourth 
quarters, and the lowest during the second and third quarters. 
  The main reasons for the reduction of production volumes 
were 
the difficult financial position of the enterprises caused by 
nonpayments of buyers of products, lack of material resources 
and difficulties with the sale of products, and numerous 
production shutdowns. The greatest losses were observed at 
enterprises of machine building and metal processing and light, 
chemical, and petrochemical industries. 
  The basic volume of products (56.6 percent) was produced by 
enterprises with a mixed form of ownership. They make up 29.7 
percent of the overall number of enterprises, and 49.1 percent 
of the industrial production personnel work at them. State 
enterprises, making up 55.5 percent and employing 44.2 percent 
of the personnel, produced 37.7 percent of the overall volume of 
products. Additionally, there were 88 private enterprises and 
nine municipal enterprises functioning in industry along with 11 
enterprises that are the property of public organizations. 
<H5>  Industry </H5>
  A reduction of the volumes of the production of products 
occurred in all branches of industry but there were significant 
differences in terms of rates and scale. Thus light industry 
enterprises reduced volumes as compared to last year's level by 
25.2 percent, machine building--23.3 percent, nonferrous 
metallurgy--22.8 percent, and the food industry--1.6 percent. 
  In the fuel and energy complex there was a reduction of the 
output of electric energy of 14.2 percent as compared to the 
1992 level, the extraction of coal--by 3.7 percent, and peat--by 
51 percent. 
  In ferrous metallurgy there was a reduction as compared to 
the 1992 level of the output of iron--by 10.3 percent, steel--by 
11.9 percent, high grade cold rolled steel--by 36.1 percent, and 
cold rolled sheet metal--by 66.4 percent. At the same time the 
production of finished rolled metal was 3.1 percent above last 
year's level and cold rolled steel strips--5.6 percent. 
  For a number of kinds of machine building products the 
output 
was below the 1992 level: The production of technological 
equipment for the processing branches of the agro-industrial 
complex decreased by 47.2 percent, diesel engines and diesel 
generators--by 40.3 percent, gas turbines--by 37.1 percent, 
large electrical machines--by 32.4 percent, excavators--by 13.4 
percent, blast furnace and steel smelting equipment--by 7.1 
percent, and machine tools with numerical programmed control--by 
66.7 percent (although the output of metal cutting machine tools 
exceeded the 1992 level by 35.4 percent). 
  Enterprises of the chemical-timber complex reduced the 
production of sulfuric acid by 18.6 percent as compared to last 
year's level, synthetic resins and plastics--by 16.7 percent, 
commercial timber--by 23.7 percent, lumber--by 27.3 percent, 
chip board--by 30.4 percent, and paper--by 57.2 percent. The 
output of passenger vehicle and motorcycle tires and nitrogen 
fertilizers remained at the 1992 level. 
  In the construction materials industry the output of cement 
increased by 1.4 percent as compared to last year, window 
glass--by 15.7 percent, ceramic facing tiles--by 4.2 percent, 
and ceramic sanitation items--by 3.5 percent. But there was a 
reduction of the production of construction brick--by 24.1 
percent and prefabricated reinforced concrete elements--by 17.7 
percent. Consumer goods production amounted to R836.9 billion, 
which in comparable prices is 6.9 percent below the 1992 level. 
For all groups of goods except wine and vodka and beer we did 
not manage to maintain the 1992 production volumes. 
  Food production amounted to R299.3 billion. The sharp 
decline 
in the production of food products in 1992 by 19.4 percent was 
replaced by a relative stabilization of their output in 1993 (a 
reduction of 0.8 percent as compared to the level of the 
preceding year). More meat was produced during the year--4,499 
tonnes (4.9 percent), butter--1,067 tonnes (14.9 percent), 
mayonnaise--1,701 tonnes (15.1 percent) and confectionery 
items--1,529 tonnes (2.2 percent). At the same time less 
semimanufactured meat products were produced--386 tonnes (1.8 
percent), whole milk products--27,061 tonnes (7.4 percent), 
margarine--10,136 tonnes (30.3 percent), vegetable oil--373 
tonnes (17.7 percent), and bread and bakery items--34,918 tonnes 
(6.4 percent). 
  Some R34.7 billion worth of wine and vodka items and beer 
was 
produced, which exceeds last year's level by 8.1 percent, as a 
result of increasing the output of strong alcoholic beverages, 
champagne, and beer. 
  At light industry enterprises there was a reduction of the 
production of fabrics by 24.2 percent, footwear--by 48.3 
percent, knitted items--by 19.8 percent, and the output of goods 
for children decreased by 31-67 percent. 
  The output of nonfood consumer goods (not including light 
industry goods) decreased by 9.2 percent, while this figure was 
6.8 percent in 1992. The production of motorcycles was 7.4 
percent less, enameled steel dishware--37.6 percent, 
bicycles--40.5 percent, and household goods--41.2 percent less. 
There was an increase in the output of certain kinds of 
complicated household equipment: kitchen appliances--by 38.4 
percent, television sets--by 167.8 percent, electric irons--by 
29.2 percent, and electric teapots--by 8.4 percent. At the same 
time there was a 39.2 percent reduction of the production of 
washing machines, video cassette recorders--53.5 percent, and 
radio equipment--56.3 percent. 
<H5>  Capital Construction </H5>
  In the oblast national economy during the report year fixed 
capital valued at R257.5 was introduced, including for 
production purposes--R140.7 billion (54.6 percent of the overall 
amount introduced, in 1992 it was 64.6). 
  During the report period 1,490,500 square meters of 
residential space was introduced (100.1 percent of the 1992 
level). At the same time there was a reduction of the rates of 
housing construction in 11 cities (35.5 percent of the overall 
number) and 18 rayons (78.2 percent). Among them were the cities 
of Irbit, Nevyansk, Serov, and Severouralsk, and the following 
rayons: Verkhoturskiy, Prigorodnyy, and Krasnoufimskiy. 
  General educational schools were introduced to accommodate 
8,837 (72.7 percent of the 1992 level), children's preschool 
institutions to accommodate 2,310 (65.3 percent), hospitals with 
639 beds (2.8 times more than in 1992), and polyclinics for 
2,702 visits per shift (149.7 percent). 
  The introduction of housing per one oblast resident amounted 
to 0.32 square meters (in 1992--0.31), children's preschool 
institutions--0.53 places for 100 children of preschool age (in 
1992--0.78), general educational schools--1.11 places for every 
100 school children (in 1992--1.54), hospitals--1.37 beds for 
every 10,000 residents (1992--0.48), and polyclinics--5.78 
visits per shift per 10,000 residents (1992--3.84). 
  Capital investments in the oblast economy amounted to R671.5 
billion (71.4 percent of the 1992 level in comparable prices). 
Of these R385.6 billion (57.4 percent; in 1992--61.2 percent) 
was used for production purposes. 
  Centralized capital investments in the oblast national 
economy amounted to R204.2 billion (98.0 percent of the 1992 
level), and of these, money from the federal budget amounted to 
R65 billion (63 percent of the 1992 level) and from local 
budgets--R139.2 billion (132.4 percent). Capital belonging to 
state enterprises and organizations amounted to R200.9 billion 
(38 percent of the 1992 level) and other forms of ownership and 
credit--R254.9 billion (136.1 percent of the 1992 level), and 
capital belonging to the population and housing construction 
collectives--R11.5 billion (71.8 percent of the 1992 level). 
  In the agro-industrial complex during the report year fixed 
capital valued at R25.7 billion was introduced, including for 
production purposes--R19.7 billion. There was a reduction of the 
volume of startup of housing and social, cultural, and domestic 
facilities: In 1993, 126,500 square meters of dwelling space was 
introduced (70.8 percent of the 1992 level), children's 
preschool institutions to accommodate 50 (18.9), schools to 
accommodate 960 (in 1992--71.4), and clubs and houses of culture 
to accommodate 360 (48.0). 
  As of 1 January 1994 there were 514 contracting and 
repair-construction organizations in operation (as of 1 January 
1993--514), of which 131 (192) were state, 4 (5)--municipal, 229 
(199)--with a mixed form of ownership, and 150 (118)--private. 
They performed contracting work in a volume of R504.7 billion, 
including by state enterprises--R93.6 billion (19.1 percent of 
the overall volume; in 1992--33.6), municipal--2.6 (0.5 percent; 
in 1992--0.5), with a mixed form of ownership--254.3 (50.4 
percent; in 1992-- 41.1), and by private organizations--R151.5 
billion (30.0 percent; in 1992--24.8). 
<H5>  Agriculture </H5>
  The increase in the number of producers of agricultural 
products did not lead to an increase in their production. 
According to the estimate, the gross agricultural output 
decreased by 5 percent as compared to 1992. 
  In 1993 the gross yield of grain on all categories of farms 
amounted to 744,200 tonnes in weight after cleaning (73 percent 
of last year's level), potatoes--654,700 tonnes (72 percent), 
and vegetables--228,900 tonnes (121 percent). The production of 
potatoes was 139 kg and vegetables--49 kg per oblast resident. 
Grain production was concentrated mainly on agricultural 
enterprises and potatoes and vegetables--on private subsidiary 
farms belonging to the population. 
  By the beginning of 1994, 12,700 tonnes of grain had been 
added to state resources, which is 2.5 times more than last 
year; potatoes--26,000 tonnes (39 percent of the 1992 level), 
and vegetables--53,300 tonnes (76 percent). The proportion of 
grain procured as compared to the volume of its production was 2 
percent, potatoes--4 percent, and vegetables--23 percent. 
  The situation in animal husbandry is characterized by a 
reduction of the arrival of products from the farms of 
agricultural enterprises and simultaneously a small increase in 
their production in private yards of the citizens. For one 
resident of the oblast they produced 319 eggs, 199 liters of 
milk, and 36 kg of meat. 
  Agricultural enterprises sold 149,200 tonnes of cattle and 
poultry for slaughter (94 percent of 1992), including 
poultry--60,900 tonnes (99.8 percent); the milk yield--562,200 
tonnes (99.7 percent); and 1,374.1 million eggs were received 
(94.5 percent). The average milk yield from one cow was 2,681 kg 
and exceeded last year's level by 202 kilograms. 
  The reduction of the breeding herd led to a reduction of the 
production of young animals. During the report year as compared 
to the 1992 level we failed to receive 17,700 calves (7 percent) 
and 34,800 piglets (5 percent). Losses from death and 
destruction of hogs exceeded last year's level by 19,900 and 
cattle--by 200 head. As of 1 January 1994 the farms had 501,300 
head of cattle, including cows--193,200, horses--17,000 (92 
percent each), hogs--347,100 (93 percent), and 
poultry--13,706,100 head (97 percent). 
  State procurements of animal husbandry products (except for 
eggs) during January-December 1993 exceeded last year's level 
and amounted to: cattle and poultry--137,200 tonnes (101 
percent), milk--480,000 tonnes (102 percent), eggs--1,153.9 
billion (98 percent); the share from agricultural enterprises in 
state resources accounted for 94.1 percent of the meat and 99.2 
percent of the milk. The amounts purchased from the population 
were 7,400 tonnes (5.4 percent) of cattle and poultry and 2,400 
tonnes (0.5 percent) of milk, and the amounts purchased from 
farmers were 700 tonnes (0.5 percent) and 1,400 tonnes (0.3 
percent), respectively. 
  As of 1 January 1994 there were 3,119 farmers, which was 16 
percent more than at the beginning of 1993. Farmyards occupy 
91,200 hectares of land, including 57,300 hectares of plowed 
land, which amounts to an average of 18 hectares per one farm. 
<H5>  Transportation and Communications </H5>
  There was a reduction of freight shipments on all kinds of 
transportation, including automotive--by 47 million tonnes (38.5 
percent), and rail--34.6 million tonnes (20 percent). The volume 
of shipments of freight and mail on air transportation decreased 
by 6,400 tonnes (37.2 percent). The reduction of the shipments 
of freight was caused by the reduction of the output of many 
kinds of products and also their concentration in warehouses of 
enterprises because of nonpayments. 
  Passenger turnover on general purpose transportation 
increased by 433.7 million passenger-kilometers (1.6 percent), 
including on rail transportation--by 2.3365 trillion 
passenger-kilometers (14.5 percent) and automotive--by 32.3 
million passenger-kilometers (0.5 percent). Passenger turnover 
on air transportation decreased by 1.9351 trillion 
passenger-kilometers (47.7 percent). 
  The quality of passenger service is still poor. There was a 
considerable deterioration of the work of city transportation in 
Yekaterinburg. Each week buses and streetcars fail to make up to 
13 percent of the planned trips, and trolleys--up to 10 percent 
of the trips. An investigation conducted by state statistical 
organs in November 1993 showed that during the morning peak 
hours every other bus passenger had to wait more than 20 minutes 
for a bus to come, as did every fifth streetcar passenger and 
every sixth trolley passenger. Time spent traveling to work and 
back amounted to an average of 1.5 hours a day, but 16 percent 
of the passengers (every sixth one) spends more than two hours. 
Three-fourths of the passengers questioned mentioned the 
crowding of the transportation vehicles during the morning peak 
hours. Only 2 percent of those questioned used the subway. 
  Commuter train and bus service for the population of the 
city 
of Yekaterinburg is getting worse. The number of scheduled 
suburban trips has been reduced. During January-February 1993 
each week the schedule included 2,400 suburban trips, and during 
November-December--only 2,100. 
  As of 1 January 1994 there were 14 joint-stock companies 
operating in the general purpose automotive transportation 
system (25 percent of the overall number). They moved 62 percent 
of the freight and 8 percent of the passengers. 
  During 1993 communications enterprises received R34.7 
billion 
in revenues from their basic activity, including R8.8 billion 
from the population. The volume of communications services in 
physical terms decreased considerably: The delivery of 
newspapers, magazines, and parcels--twofold, and letters, 
printed material, money transfers, and telegrams--by one-fourth. 
  The number of telephones in cities of the oblast increased 
by 
21,200 (4 percent), and in rural locations--by 600 (1 percent). 
At the same time the number of city and rural automatic 
telephones decreased by 404 (6 percent) and interurban ones--by 
143 (17 percent). 
<H5>  Finances </H5>
  In 1993 the consolidated budget of Sverdlovsk Oblast 
received 
R837.3 billion in revenues, which is 10 times more than last 
year's level. The main sources of revenue are still: profit 
tax--R449.2 billion, income tax from citizens--R147.6 billion, 
value added tax--R87.1 billion, property tax--R19.2 billion, and 
excise tax--R18.2 billion. But because of the unsatisfactory 
financial conditions of a number of enterprises and 
organizations, the debt on payments to the oblast and local 
budgets continues to grow. As of 1 January of this year its 
amount reached R49.5 billion. 
  Budget expenditures amounted to R829.7 billion and increased 
11-fold. Financing the national economy took R287.8 billion, 
public education--R180.7 billion, public health and physical 
culture--R203.7 billion, culture and art--R16.3 billion, 
science--R0.7 billion, and stipends and compensation payments 
for children amounted to--R16.5 billion. 
  The consolidated oblast budget ended up with a surplus (with 
revenues surpassing expenditures) of R7.6 billion. 
  According to preliminary calculations, the sum of profit 
received by enterprises and organizations of the oblast during 
1993 will amount to R1.750 trillion. State enterprises account 
for 43 percent of all the profit, and nonstate enterprises--57 
percent. Based on the results of their operation over 11 months, 
losses were sustained by 306 of the more than 2,100 enterprises 
considered. The sum of their losses amounted to R5.4 billion. 
  Credit indebtedness of industrial, construction, 
transportation, and agricultural enterprises and organizations 
as of 1 December amounted to R1.4344 trillion, of which R438.9 
billion or 30.6 percent was defaulted. The monetary funds of the 
enterprises, which amounted to R110.5 billion, covered their 
credit indebtedness by 7.7 percent, including in industry--7.8 
percent, construction--5.4 percent, transportation--10.7 
percent, and agriculture--5.9 percent. 
  Significant amounts of defaulted credit indebtedness are 
related to the existence of debit indebtedness. As of 1 December 
debit indebtedness amounted to R1.5395 billion, including 
defaulted debts--R538.8 billion, 92 percent of which are 
defaulted debts of buyers. 
<H5>  Prices and Rates </H5>
  In December 1993 as compared to December 1992 consumer 
prices 
for goods and services rose 8.5-fold (not including 
non-necessities--8.6-fold), and wholesale prices for industrial 
products--10.7-fold. The growth rates for food and nonfood goods 
were considerably below the rates of prices and rates for paid 
services to the population, which increased 33.5-fold during the 
year. 
  In 1993 subsidies were allotted to producers of agricultural 
products for livestock, milk, and eggs, and there was regulation 
of wholesale prices of monopoly enterprises, rates for certain 
socially significant kinds of services, and also trade 
increments for a number of goods, which undoubtedly retarded the 
growth of prices. 
  In December 1993 as compared to the level of December of the 
preceding year vegetables became 16 times more expensive, milk 
and dairy products--15 times, and eggs--12 times. Prices of meat 
and poultry, sausage and macaroni items, and potatoes increased 
9-10-fold; fish, butter and vegetable oil, flour, bread and 
bakery items--7-8-fold; and cheeses, margarine, and 
confectionery--6-7-fold. For fabrics, knitwear, leather and 
textile footwear, tobacco items, radio equipment, and electrical 
goods prices rose 3-4-fold, and clothing, rubber footwear, and 
furniture--5-fold. The highest growth was for medications--an 
average of 36-fold. 
  Of the services rendered to the population, the greatest 
price increases were for services of a legal nature and of 
banking institutions (386-fold) and also institutions of culture 
(86-fold). Rates for passenger transportation and communications 
and prices of medical service and housing services increased 
17-19-fold, and consumer and tourist-excursion services and 
services for keeping children in preschool 
institutions--22-24-fold, and the cost of passes to 
sanitorium-health resort and health institutions rose 26-fold. 
The least growth in rates occurred for municipal services 
(11.3-fold). 
  As of the end of December in retail trade in the oblast the 
following average prices developed for the main food products: 
beef--R2,058 per kg, butter--R3,327 per kg, potatoes--R287 per 
kg, sugar--R812 per kg, eggs--R752 for 10, and milk R301 per 
liter. There is still a considerable differentiation of prices 
among the various cities (rayons) of the oblast. The minimum 
price for a liter of milk in the oblast in December was R123 and 
the maximum--R524; for 10 eggs--R405 and R930, respectively, for 
a kilogram of beef--R1,800 and R2,943, for butter--R2,765 and 
R4,485, for sugar--R620 and R848, and for potatoes--R70 and R360. 
  The greatest disparity of prices among the various cities 
and 
rayons of the oblast is still for paid services to the 
population. Thus the disparity in prices for laundry services 
was 10-fold, hotels--12-fold, bathhouses--25-fold, 
dormitories--80-fold, and medical service--from 10-fold to 
39-fold. 
  Prices of food products at city markets in 1993 increased 
more slowly than they did in state trade. In December 1993 as 
compared to December 1992 at the markets meat increased in cost 
on average 7.8-fold, milk, sour cream, and cottage 
cheese--6.6-fold, and potatoes and vegetables--14-fold. As 
before, the market price level was higher than prices in 
organized trade. At the end of December the average price level 
at city markets for meat was R2,474 per kg, sour cream--R4,254 
per kg, cottage cheese--R1,780 per kg, potatoes--R363 per kg, 
and milk--R656 per liter. 
  Prices of producers of industrial products grew at more 
rapid 
rates than did consumer prices, and in December 1993 as compared 
to December 1992 they increased for products for production and 
technical purposes 10.8-fold, and for consumer goods--9.5-fold. 
Since September the growth rates of prices for industrial 
products have begun to drop and in December they were the lowest 
in the report year--11.6 percent. In December a smaller increase 
in prices than in all the preceding months of 1993 was found in 
ferrous metallurgy, forestry and light industry, in which, as 
compared to December 1992, prices increased on average 
10-12-fold. Prices increased most during the year in electric 
energy engineering, especially electric energy for agricultural 
consumers (91-fold). Rates for electric energy for industrial 
consumers increased 16.7-fold, for electric commuter rail 
transportation--23-fold, for city transportation--37.5-fold, and 
for thermal energy--on average 35.7-fold. The rates for the 
shipment of freight for all kinds of transportation in December 
1993 as compared to December 1992 increased almost 23-fold, 
including automotive--11.5-fold, air--15.2-fold, pipelines 
(gas)--20.9-fold, and rail--26.7-fold. 
<H5>  Commodity Turnover </H5>
  Retail commodity turnover, including the sale of goods for 
hard currency, amounted to R1.2673 trillion, including in the 
trade network--R1.1787 trillion, and at public catering 
enterprises--R88.6 billion. In actual prices commodity turnover 
exceeded last year's level 10-fold, but in comparable prices it 
was 5.3 percent less. 
  Retail commodity turnover of all officially registered trade 
enterprises developed as follows: 39.6 percent (in 1992--54.9 
percent) of all the goods were sold in the state sector, and in 
the private sector--47.9 percent (35.6 percent), at enterprises 
of the consumer cooperation system--5.8 percent (9.3 percent), 
and at other nonstate enterprises--6.7 percent (0.2 percent). 
  Commodity supplies in warehouses of the retail network of 
officially registered trade enterprises as of 1 January 1994 
amounted to R202.5 billion, which was R496.5 million (2.5 
percent) more than as of the beginning of last year. This volume 
of commodity resources could maintain continuous trade for 28 
days. 
  There was an increase in the proportion of nonfoodstuffs In 
the structure of retail commodity turnover in 1993. 
  The situation in the foodstuffs market was relatively 
stable, 
but the assortment and quality of the products and the prices 
did not always meet consumer demand. In spite of the constant 
availability of practically all foodstuffs for free sale and 
their active sales, the low buying power of the population 
allowed them to acquire less food than in past years, although 
there was an increase in sales in the main commodity groups. 
  The situation with the provision by state trade 
organizations 
of potatoes and vegetables for the population is worse than in 
previous years. By the beginning of the winter season in the 
storage facilities of the trade network there was less for 
long-term storage than last year: potatoes, onions, and 
carrots--by half, and cabbage--by one-third. The volumes that 
were stored up were practically 50 percent less than the amount 
sold annually in the trade network. 
  The provision of the population with nonfoodstuffs improved 
last year, with R597.9 billion sold. The stores were saturated 
mainly because of costly goods and increased foreign 
procurements by commercial structures. According to accounting 
data, more than half of the fabrics, clothing, and footwear 
brought into the oblast, up to 40 percent of the business goods, 
and 30 percent of the haberdashery items are imports. 
  In turn, one-fourth of the commodity mass produced in the 
oblast is shipped outside, including one-third of the finished 
knitwear items, one-fourth of the felt footwear, one-half of the 
hosiery items and leather footwear, and 70-80 percent of the 
radio equipment, motorcycles, and motor scooters. 
  The following was sold to the population of the oblast 
during 
the year: clothing and underwear--1.1 times more than during 
1992, hosiery items--1.2 times, footwear--1.1 times, silk 
fabrics--1.8 times, and cotton fabrics--1.3 times. The demand of 
the population for cultural and domestic goods is not 
declining--99,100 radios were sold (1.8-times more than last 
year), and television sets--92,200 (1.7-times). Of the goods in 
daily demand there was an increase in the sales of toilet soap 
by 15.5 percent (5,500 tonnes were sold), household soap--30 
percent (4,200 tonnes), and detergents--61.5 percent (13,200 
tonnes). The sale of wool fabrics and knitted items did not 
reach last year's level. 
  The volume of sales of paid services amounted to R125.8 
billion, but in physical terms the population received half the 
volume of services rendered in 1992. 
  The sale of paid services was mainly at enterprises of the 
state and municipal sectors, which accounted for 83.0 percent of 
the total volume. Enterprises with the mixed and private forms 
of ownership accounted for 16.5 percent of the overall volume of 
paid services, and 0.5 percent was at enterprises that are the 
property of public organizations. The greatest decline in the 
number of orders was for consumer services--repair of housing 
and furniture, laundry, and dry cleaning. 
<H5>  Foreign Economic Activity </H5>
  Product exports amounted to R520.9258 trillion in domestic 
prices or $892 million in foreign trade prices. The volume of 
goods delivered for freely convertible currency was R82.2799 
trillion in domestic prices or 15.8 percent of the overall 
volume of exports. 
  The largest proportion of the overall volume of exports was 
made up of raw and processed materials--93.9 percent. The 
proportion of machines and equipment was 3.5 percent; equipment 
and materials for facilities under construction abroad with 
technical assistance from the Russian Federation--0.8 percent; 
consumer goods--0.3 percent; and services--1.5 percent of the 
overall volume of exports. The main export items are metals 
and items made from them, chemical products, ores, and 
concentrates. 
  The largest exporting enterprises are: the NTMK Joint-Stock 
Company--48.5 percent of the overall volume of exports, the VIZ 
Joint-Stock Company--3.4 percent; and the Bogoslovskiy Aluminum 
Plant Joint-Stock Company--2.9 percent. 
  Among the countries delivering raw materials, the 
industrially developed countries are in the lead. Thus imports 
from Japan amounted to $9,447,000., the United States of 
America-- $9,237,000, Austria--$7,809,000, and 
Germany--$5,220,000. 
  During 1993, $581.4 million was deposited in the foreign 
currency accounts of enterprises and organizations. Foreign 
currency revenues from exporting products amounted to $461.1 
million, services--$42.7 million, and other revenues--$77.4 
million. A total of $562.4 million in foreign currency funds 
were spent, including for importing products--$97.1 million, 
services--$2.6 million, and other payments--$96.1 million. 
Foreign currency amounting to $366.4 million was sold. 
<H5>  Exchanges </H5>
  During the year the five exchanges held 946 trading sessions 
and concluded 5,120 transactions. The turnover of the exchanges 
amounted to R55.0597 trillion. More than half of the 
transactions--56.6 percent--were for the sale of products for 
production and technical purposes, and commodity turnover 
amounted to R23.4783 trillion. 
  Monetary resources that were sold amounted to R16.2194 
trillion, of which R8,068.5 were credit resources and R8,150.9 
were deposit resources. Security sales amounted to R7.8805 
trillion, including stocks--R3.4437 trillion, options--R2.3932 
trillion, and privatization checks--R2.0436 trillion. 
<H5>  The Standard of Living of the Population </H5>
  After the sharp decline in 1992 the standard of living of 
the 
population stabilized at a mark considerably below that of the 
pre-reform period. Monetary incomes of the population increased 
10.2-fold, reaching R41,000 per one resident per month. In 
December the nominal per capita monetary income amounted to 
R95,000. 
  According to data from an ongoing selective study of family 
budgets, during the fourth quarter 14 percent of the families 
were on the threshold of poverty, which is defined by the 
physiological minimum for nutrition (R38,100), 41 percent were 
underprivileged families with income per one family member 
between the poverty threshold and the subsistence minimum, which 
is evaluated by the consumer basket, which is valued at R71,500. 
The proportion of these families decreased from 69 percent in 
the fourth quarter of 1992 to 55 percent during the same period 
of last year. 
  There was a 10 percent increase in the proportion of 
families 
with incomes equal to the value of one to two consumer baskets. 
There were more well-off families (with an average per capita 
income equal to the value of two to four consumer baskets)--8 
percent, while a year ago they made up 5 percent, and for the 
first time it was possible to single out rich people--0.4 
percent of the families have an average per capita income in 
excess of the value of four consumer baskets. As a result of the 
continuing stratification of the population, the average level 
of per capita income of the 10 percent of the most well-off 
citizens was 7.7 times above the corresponding level of the 10 
percent of the least well-off. 
  Bank deposits of the population as of 1 January 1994 
amounted 
to R125.8 billion. The increase in savings of the population in 
deposits and securities (bonds, certificates, treasury notes) 
reached R108.5 billion and increased 13.3-fold as compared to 
the preceding year. 
  The AVERAGE ANNUAL NUMBER OF WORKERS was 1,785,900 (not 
counting workers at small enterprises), which is 4.2 percent 
less than in 1992. 
  A one-time study of the employment of the population 
conducted by statistical organs during the period from 20 
through 31 October 1993 encompassed 0.3 percent of the 
population between 15 and 72 years of age living permanently in 
the cities and rayons (except Garinskiy and Tabsoinskiy) of 
Sverdlovsk Oblast. As a result it was discovered that of the 
overall number studied, 62.1 percent had work and 3.1 percent of 
them were looking for different or additional work. Of the 
number who did not have work, 8.2 percent were looking for it, 
including those registered with the employment service as 
unemployed--1.4 percent, those not looking for work--36.2 
percent, and those who did not need to work--55.6 percent. 
  The number of citizens applying to the employment service 
regarding questions of labor placement amounted to 80,563 at the 
end of 1993, 46,832 of which were women. 
  The demand for labor force continues to decrease. 
Notifications by enterprises of the need for workers decreased 
as compared to the beginning of the year by 17.4 percent and as 
of 1 January 1994 amounted to 5,459. 
  As of 1 January 1994, 28,015 people were officially 
recognized as unemployed, of whom 17,471 received compensation. 
Women make up 67.2 percent of the unemployed. The number of 
youth under 29 years of age among the unemployed decreased by 2 
percent as compared to last year and amounted to 36.0 percent. 
  During the year R1,165.1 million was spent for payment of 
compensation, including R235.7 million during December. 
  The average annual wages in the oblast reached R59,551, 
which 
is 8.8 times above last year's level. In December in the oblast 
wages amounted to R133,554, and the average amount of material 
assistance and benefits per one worker was R25,312. 
  According to preliminary figures, the population as of 1 
January 1994 amounted to 4,665,300. There remains a tendency 
toward decrease of the birth rate and increase of the death rate 
of the population. In 1993, 4,400 fewer children were born than 
in the preceding year, and the coefficient of the birth rate 
(the number of births per 1,000 population) decreased from 9.5 
in 1992 to 8.6, or by 10 percent. 
  The decline of the birth rate is explained not only by 
objective demographic factors but also by the deterioration of 
the socioeconomic situation in the oblast. These same factors 
can explain the continuing rise of the level of the death rate 
of the population; during the past year the number of deaths 
increased by 10,700. The coefficient of the death rate (the 
number of deaths per 1,000 residents) was 15.0, and in the 
preceding year it was 12.7. There was a 9 percent increase in 
the coefficient of infant mortality; 19 children die out of 
every 1,000 births. The number of deaths in 1993 exceeded the 
number of births by 30,000. 
  As a favorable factor in the demographic situation one can 
observe a certain increase in the number of marriages--by 1,300. 
  By the beginning of 1994 on the territory of the oblast 
there 
were 4,000 refugee families registered and only 8,400 who were 
forced to resettle. The majority came from Tajikistan--42 
percent, from Georgia--23 percent, and from Azerbaijan--9 
percent. Two-thirds of them are Russians, and then come Greeks, 
Armenians, and Tatars. They are settling mainly in Yekaterinburg 
and other large cities of the oblast; 824 people have settled in 
rural areas. 
  During the year internal affairs organs registered 108,123 
crimes--1,528 less than in 1992. There were 5,435 fewer crimes 
committed in Yekaterinburg and 1,768 more crimes committed in 
the other territories of the oblast. The proportion of these 
crimes increased from 18.7 percent to 23.6 percent. The number 
of premeditated murders increased--1,097 (last year--898), 
premeditated serious bodily harm--3,334 (2,662), torture--650 
(550), and rape--587 (last year--466). As a result of the crimes 
that were committed, 2,828 people died. The number of property 
crimes decreased by 5 percent compared to last year, and their 
proportion in the structure of crime is the highest--74 percent; 
there was a 4 percent increase in crimes against public order 
and the health of citizens, and the number of crimes against 
individuals increased by 26 percent. The number of people who 
had committed crimes who were found out was 44,165. 
  During the year 45 rallies and demonstrations were 
registered 
in the oblast in which more than 278,000 people participated, 
four strikes, with a total of 1,704 strikers, and 18,822 work 
days were lost. 
<H5>  Privatization </H5>
  The year 1993 is characterized by the completion of 
"small-scale" privatization and the beginning of privatization 
of enterprises of the base branches of the national economy. As 
of 1 January 1994 2,828 enterprises in the oblast had been 
privatized (which was about one-third of the number of 
enterprises owned by the state), including 1,610 in 1993. The 
number of privatized enterprises increased 2.3-fold as compared 
to 1992. Of the overall number of privatized enterprises, 74.3 
percent were completely bought out, of which 58.5 percent were 
bought in 1993, which exceeds the 1992 rates 1.4-fold. By the 
time of their privatization more than 620,000 people were 
employed at these enterprises. Privatization of enterprises and 
individual facilities was conducted in all cities and rayons of 
the oblast except Garinskiy, Pyshminskiy, and Taborinskiy. 
  With the development of "large-scale privatization" there 
was 
an increase in the proportion of federally owned enterprises in 
the overall number of those privatized from 8.6 percent in 1992 
to 16 percent in 1993, and the proportion of enterprises 
privatized through the creation of joint-stock companies 
increased from 0.7 percent to 18 percent. The most widespread 
form was privatization of enterprises on a competitive 
basis--41.5 percent; 8.1 percent of the facilities were sold at 
auction; and 27 percent of the enterprises were purchased by 
collectives who were leasing the property. The sales price 
exceeded the initial price 4.5-fold as compared to twofold in 
1992. 
  Earnings from privatization of enterprises (facilities), 
including joint-stock companies, during 1993 amounted to 
R10.2179 trillion, which was 90.4 percent of the volume of 
monetary funds envisioned by the oblast program for 
privatization for 1993. From privatization of municipally owned 
enterprises they received R6.3225 trillion (61.9 percent), 
oblast owned--R499.1 million (4.9 percent), and federally 
owned--R3.,3963 trillion (33.2 percent). Of the earnings, 41.8 
percent was transferred into local budgets, 25.6 percent--into 
the oblast budget, 13.9 percent--into the federal budget, and 
18.7 percent went to state privatization organs. 
  During the year 276,500 apartments were turned over to 
private ownership of citizens; this is 23.1 percent of the 
number of apartments subject to privatization. The overall value 
of privatized apartments is estimated at R17.919 trillion. The 
local budget received R32.7 million. Since the beginning of 
privatization of the housing supply (July 1992) a total of 
364,700 apartments (30.4 percent) have been sold to the citizens 
for private ownership. 
<H5>  Environmental Protection </H5>
  As compared to last year investments in environmental 
protection measures decreased by 20 percent (in comparable 
prices) and amounted to R26.392 trillion. Of the overall volume 
of capital investments, 56 percent went for protection and 
rational utilization of water resources, 28 percent--for 
protection of the air, and 4 percent--for protection and 
rational utilization of land. 
  During the year 29 cases of surging overflows and discharges 
of pollutants were registered. They led to extremely high levels 
of pollution of the environment. The overall total damage 
amounted to R88.4 million. 
  Discharges of pollutants into bodies of water in excess of 
the norm were allowed by almost every fifth enterprise of the 
975 that were investigated, and every sixth one of the 1,096 
inspected was functioning while exceeding the maximum 
permissible discharges into the atmosphere. 
  In 1993, 521 cases of forest fires were registered, 9,400 
cubic meters of timber burned or was damaged in the stand, and 
the damage caused by forest fires is estimated at R7.6 million. 
Forest restoration work has been conducted on an area of 59,500 
hectares, 41.6 percent of which are planted in seeds and 
seedlings. 

