BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, June 24 [date as received] (KNS-KCNA) -- The 
Union of Korean Teachers in Japan, the Central Educational 
Association of Koreans in Japan and the Society of Mothers for 
Defending Human Rights of Students of Korean Schools published a 
joint appeal on June 24 with regard to the continuous outrages 
against Korean students in Japan and sent it to the 
secretary-general of the United Nations, the UN Human Rights 
Committee, missions of all countries in the United Nations, 
non-governmental organizations of different countries, 
international organizations and governments and lawyers' 
organizations around the world. 
  The appeal said the cases of national persecution and human 
rights abuses against Korean students in Japan totalled more 
than 120 in the period from April to June 21 and there is no 
sign of an end to such incidents. 
  It noted that such incidents have occurred mainly because 
the 
Japanese Government and news media fostered distrust and 
antagonism against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
among the people and they are an immediate product of the 
consciousness of discrimination and senses of chauvinism against 
the Korean people with which the Japanese Government authorities 
intentionally imbued the Japanese people. 
  "We urgently call on your organization (government) that 
respects justice, democracy, humanitarianism and human rights to 
urge the Japanese Government authorities to stop national 
persecution and human rights abuses against Koreans in Japan and 
immediately take effective steps to prevent such incidents. [no 
closing quotation mark as received] 

