Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by F. A. Tsitsin, V. M. Chepurova, I. L. Genkin, </F>
State Astronomy Institute imeni P. K. Shternberg; Kazakh State 
University imeni al Farabi; UDC 523.4-523.62-726] 
  [Abstract] In a survey of the history and background of 
"asteroid hazard," the researchers here define such danger as 
the threat of collision with Drobyshevskiy cometoids or 
comet-shower comets from Oort's Cloud, asteroids near the Earth 
(primarily of cometary origin), asteroids with chaotic orbits, 
and short-period comets. We are, they conclude, in a period of 
minimal cometary activity and asteroid hazard because the last 
cometary shower caused by disturbance of the cometary cloud 
ended long ago, and the next such event will not occur for at 
least 10 million years. Nor are there at present any objects 
near the Sun that could cause such a shower. Finally, the 
unexpected and unpredictable cometoid activity described by 
Drobyshevskiy and resulting from an explosion of the Jovian moon 
Callisto is virtually impossible. At the same time, the 
statistically unpredictable fluctuation in asteroid hazard 
dictate that we refine our theoretical research of the problem 
and set up observation programs. The objective of the first 
stage of such research would be to move asteroid collisions from 
the ranks of random, unpredictable phenomena to the ranks of 
predictable, calculable events. References 17: 13 Russian, 4 
Western. 

