BFN 

  [Text] Last night, the Democratic Constituent Congress 
[CCD] approved, by an ample majority, the top quantities of 
drugs that will, for legal purposes, be considered small 
quantities, as well as early deadlines for certain cases 
involving the crime of drug trafficking. 
  Up to 100 grams of cocaine paste and illegal byproducts, 25 
grams of cocaine hydrochloride, 200 grams of marijuana, and 20 
grams of marijuana byproducts will therefore be the limits for 
`small' quantities, which will determine a prison term of not 
less than two years and not more than eight years, a 365-day 
fine, and disability as established by Article 298 of the Penal 
Code. 
  The same legal standard establishes that, if drugs are 
distributed in small quantities and directly to individual 
consumers who are not chargeable, there will be a prison term of 
not less than one year and not more than four years, a fine 
ranging from 180 to 365 days, and disability. 
  According to its whereas clause, the bill approved last 
night, which was initially remitted by the executive branch and 
subsequently corrected by the CCD Justice Commission, seeks to 
correct the inaccuracy in Article 298 that prompted contentious 
jurisprudence. The bill also establishes a special, expeditious 
trial, which represents a one-sixth reduction of the sentences 
that must be added to the reductions received for confessing a 
crime. 
  Another approved bill involves changing the priority level 
of 
obligations of financial system organizations and savings and 
loan cooperatives when going through a process of dissolution 
and liquidation. The salaries and retirement payments of 
workers in financial system organizations and savings and loan 
cooperatives will, therefore, have immediate priority over the 
deposits of savings account holders now. 
  The CCD session was marked by proposals to send greetings to 
the Panamericana Television Channel "24 Hours" newscast and the 
official gazette EL PERUANO on their 21st and 169th 
anniversaries, respectively. 

