Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Damascus, QUDS PRESS--Well-informed Palestinian 
sources have confirmed that representatives from the 10 
Palestinian factions opposing the self-rule agreement have met 
in Damascus and approved the names of their alliance's central 
command. 
  Sources told QUDS PRESS that each Palestinian faction 
nominated two of its leaders to represent it. The meeting 
approved these nominations. The Central command is expected to 
include: 
  Abu 'Ali Mustafa [Mustafa al-Zibri] and Abu-Ahmad Fu'ad [not 
further identified] of the Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine; Nayif Hawatimah and Ramzi Rabah of the Democratic 
Front for the Liberation of Palestine; Ibrahim Ghawshah and 
Muhammad Nazzal of the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas; Ahmad 
Jibril and Talal Naji of the Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine-General Command; Colonel Muhammad Musa, alias 
Abu-Musa, and Abu-Fakhir [not further identified] of Fatah-the 
Uprising; Dr. Fathi al-Shaqaqi and 'Isam 'Amir of the Islamic 
Jihad Movement; 'Isam al-Qadi and Sami Qandil of the Vanguards 
of the Popular Liberation War, al-Sa'iqah; Khalid 'Abd-al-Majid 
and Haytham 'Abd-al-Qadir of the Popular Struggle Front; 
Abu-Nidal al-Ashqar and 'Ali 'Aziz of the Palestine Liberation 
Front; 'Arabi 'Awwad and 'Abdallah al-Nimr of the Revolutionary 
Community Party. [passage omitted] 

