Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by the Group Studying a New System of Managing </F>
Socialist State Assets of Our Country: "The Selecting of Goals 
and Policy Study With Regard to Our Country's State-Asset 
Management System of a New Type"] 
  [Text] The goal of our country's reform of the economic 
system is to establish a system of socialist market economy. In 
view of the demands raised by this goal and the actual 
situation, we believe that in the 1990s the core of the effort 
to establish our country's state-asset management system of a 
new type is to rectify property right relationships governing 
state assets and impose norms on the government's property-right 
management conduct in accordance with the objective laws of 
development of a socialist market economy, so as to turn 
state-owned enterprises into true market actors with full vigor, 
to make the state sector of the economy truly become our 
country's main force in the arena of international market 
competition and capable of also effectively safeguarding and 
developing the national interest, and to make the optimum 
deployment of state assets truly satisfy the objective demands 
of the rapid development of the social productive forces and the 
continuous improvement of the living standards of the people in 
our country. 
<H3>  Basic Point of Departure of the Effort To Establish a 
State-Asset Management System of a New Type </H3>
  The establishment of a state-asset management system of a 
new 
type must be in line with the objective needs of our country's 
economic development. We believe that in the 1990s, on the one 
hand, the reform and opening up have resulted in countries 
infiltrating one another economically, politically, culturally, 
and in other spheres, leading to the direct faceoff between the 
capitalist system and the socialist system in a "war of 
commerce." Under such a condition of "peaceful competition," how 
high the level of the productive forces is will be of more 
decisive significance to the consolidation and development of 
the socialist system than at any time in the past. On the other 
hand, the current growth of our country's national economy has 
an obvious dual-structure character, and at the same time our 
country faces the double task of continuing the effort to 
accomplish industrialization and of endeavoring to achieve the 
modernization of industry as well as the serious challenge posed 
by the prospect that new technology revolution will inevitably 
lead to important changes in industrial structure and industrial 
organizations. Faced with such a situation, we must 
fundamentally change our view on the management of property 
rights over state assets, and the core is to establish the idea 
of the state sector's leading role based on the sector's 
capability for competition. 
  The state sector's capability for competition comes, on the 
one hand, from the optimum allocation of resources within the 
state-owned enterprises, and, on the other, from the optimum 
allocation of resources in the state sector. To increase the 
state sector's capability for competition and to give full play 
to the state sector's leading role, it is necessary to start 
with proceeding with reforms in the two areas simultaneously. We 
believe that in the 1990s it is necessary to accelerate the 
transformation of the operating mechanisms of the state sector 
by organically integrating the contents of reforms at the 
following three levels because of the demands of international 
market competition. 
  The first is the reform of state-owned enterprises' mode of 
business operation. On this level, the main content of the 
reform is the reforming of the leadership system, financial 
accounting system, labor and personnel system, wage system, and 
other business management systems in state-owned enterprises, 
thereby using the management systems to ensure that state-owned 
enterprises' mode of business operation meets the demands of 
international market competition. This reform is especially 
important in those industries or enterprises which cannot adopt 
the joint-stock system. 
  The second is the reform of state-owned enterprises' asset 
organization. On this level, the content of the reform is to 
transform the majority of state-owned enterprises into 
corporations and establish a modern enterprise system. Through 
transforming those enterprises into corporations, provide those 
enterprises with a property-right system environment in which 
they can compete with nonstate-owned enterprises on an equal 
footing. Surely, with the reform of the forms of asset 
organization used by enterprises, enterprises' mode of business 
operation will also inevitably undergo many important changes as 
compared with the past. 
  The third is the reform on the level of state-owned 
enterprises' operational scale and structure. On this level, the 
main content of the reform is to optimize the sectoral structure 
and geographical structure of state assets, so as to concentrate 
the state's limited capital in the industries or enterprises 
where the leading role of the state sector can be given play in 
the most effective way. We should fully exploit the current 
advantageous condition under which the nonstate sector is quite 
strong while in society individuals' investment desire is 
getting ever stronger, and transfer to the nonstate sector 
partial and complete property rights over state-owned 
enterprises in ordinary industries in a planned manner or 
transform those state-owned enterprises into joint-stock 
companies which accept individual investment in a big way. 
Absorb funds in society through transferring property rights, 
and use the funds for accelerating the technological progress 
and development of state-owned enterprises in the emerging 
industries, thereby promoting the modernization and upgrading of 
our country's industrial structure. 
  While proceeding with reforms on the above-discussed three 
levels, we should also effectively enhance the construction of 
state-owned enterprise groups, transforming and helping such 
enterprise groups on the basis of consideration of the demands 
of international market competition so that they can gradually 
become transnational corporations with the capability for 
international market competition. 
<H3>  Basic Line of Thought on Establishing a State-Asset 
Management System of a New Type </H3>
  We believe that in view of the demands of the development of 
a socialist market economy, the establishing of a state-asset 
management system of a new type should start with work in the 
following five areas: 
  1. In terms of intragovernment arrangement, appropriately 
separate the functions of macroeconomic regulation and control 
and sectoral management from the function of managing property 
rights over state assets; and establish an organizational system 
characterized by a proper division of labor between those 
exclusively engaged in the management of the properties and 
those partially engaged in the management of the properties 
under the unified leadership of the State Council. 
  2. Separate the government's administrative management of 
property rights over state assets from business operations based 
on the use of property rights over state assets, and make 
property rights enter the market as a financial commodity; 
establish many enterprise-like actors which carry out business 
operations based on the use of property rights, give them the 
status as independent legal persons, and sever their 
administrative subordinate relations to the government, so that 
they can play the role of the intermediary between the state and 
ordinary production and circulation enterprises. 
  3. On the basis of establishing a modern enterprise system, 
make the state sector be characterized by a development 
situation where the state sector is composed of two main 
categories of enterprises and engaged in double-level 
(multilevel) business operations. Enterprises of one category 
are mainly engaged in business operations based on using 
property rights over state assets as a commodity; enterprises of 
the other category use the state assets under their control for 
producing products and services, and use the products and 
services as commodities in business operations. Enterprises of 
the two categories and the double-level business operations are 
in an common effort to ensure the preserving and increasing of 
the value of state assets. 
  4. Break down the confines imposed by the current framework 
of "separation of two powers," establish a property right system 
appropriate to a market economy, remove the closure-inducing 
restrictions imposed by the classical idea on property rights, 
and impose norms on the various derivative property rights 
resulting from property rights in accordance with the law and 
under the precondition of protecting the original property 
rights of owners, so as to form a property right system with a 
multilevel structure. 
  5. Have three basic organizational levels of management, and 
appropriately demarcate their functions, so as to form 
constraining mechanisms of a new type extending from the 
government to enterprises with regard to property rights over 
state assets, that is, the level of government management of the 
state's property rights based on having the State Council serve 
as the main actor, the level of management of the state's 
property rights, carried out by agencies which are engaged 
exclusively in such management, which is based on having the 
State Bureau of State-Asset Management serve as the main actor, 
and the level of enterprises' management of the state's property 
rights based on having the board of supervisors (or the board of 
directors or the management council) serve as the main actor. 
The specific ideas are as follows: 
<H5>  Level of Government Management of the State's Property Rights </H5>
  The State Council is the main actor which exercises 
ownership 
right over the assets of state-owned enterprises on behalf of 
the state. At this organizational level, the government's dual 
economic function is fused. Its main task in managing the 
state's property rights is to give the most effective play to 
the state sector's role in promoting the optimum allocation of 
resources in society. Consequently, the main contents of the 
management of the state's property rights at this level include: 
determining where additional state assets are to be placed, 
adjusting the scale and structure of business operations based 
on state assets, forming and issuing mandatory plans on 
state-owned enterprises, coordinating the social objectives of 
state-owned enterprises' business operations with the profit 
objectives of such operations, etc. In order to ensure the State 
Council's effective exercise of ownership right over the assets 
of state-owned enterprises and to enhance the overall planning 
and guidance regarding the reform of the system of state-owned 
enterprises and the rearrangement of state assets, it is proper 
to consider establishing an interagency commission for 
state-asset management, with the premier or a vice premier 
serving as chairman of the commission and with officials in 
charge of the government's structural reform agencies, the 
various comprehensive economic functional agencies, state-asset 
management agencies, and the agencies in charge of the relevant 
industries serving as members of the commission. To make 
decision making more scientific, it is also proper to establish 
an advisory committee or evaluation committee of experts under 
the commission. 
<H3>  Level of Management of the State's Property Rights Carried 
Out by Government Agencies Engaged Exclusively in Such Management </H3>
  The State Bureau of State-Asset Management is a State 
Council 
agency engaged exclusively in the management of property rights 
over the assets of state-owned enterprises. Its main task in 
managing property rights is to promote, in the most effective 
way, the optimum deployment of state assets on the macroeconomic 
level. Its main functions include: formulating uniform rules, 
laws, regulations, and policies on the management of property 
rights over the assets of state-owned enterprises; analyzing the 
macro situation regarding business operations based on the 
assets of state-owned enterprises as well as the strategies used 
in such operations, providing the State Council with timely 
suggestions of an advisory nature with regard to the adjustment 
of the structure of business operations based on state assets 
and the rearrangement of the assets, and coordinating the 
relationships between the objectives of government management of 
property rights and the objectives of the government's social 
and economic management, so as to ensure that the business 
operations of state-owned enterprises have a unified goal; 
providing unified and category-based guidance regarding the 
reform of the property right system governing state-owned 
enterprises, training, selecting, and evaluating representatives 
of the state's property rights in enterprises and top management 
personnel of the enterprises, etc. The State Bureau of 
State-Asset Management can set up several layers of bureaucracy 
and make division-of-labor arrangements. In general, vertically 
governmental state-asset management bureaus can be established 
at the levels of the center, provinces (autonomous regions, 
municipalities under direct central jurisdiction, and cities 
with separate plans), and cities. Horizontally branch offices of 
state-asset management bureaus can be established in economic 
management agencies in charge of some industries. Such 
exclusively mandated agencies, established at the various levels 
and under division-of-labor arrangements, will carry out work 
under the unified guidance exercised by the State Bureau of 
State-Asset Management. 
  With regard to the establishment of branch offices in charge 
of state-asset management in the management agencies in charge 
of a few industries, it is necessary to pay attention to doing a 
good job of resolving the conflict between "supervisory 
management" (i.e., the property right management, carried out by 
agencies in charge of the relevant industries, of the 
state-owned enterprises supervised by those agencies) and 
"general management" (i.e., the management of all the 
enterprises in the relevant industries carried out by the 
agencies in charge of those industries). To that end, it is not 
only necessary that workers of the agencies in charge of the 
industries transform their views, improve their quality, and 
change their modes of operation, but also necessary to clearly 
stipulate in terms of the rules governing the system that those 
branch offices should accept the dual operational direction of 
both the agencies in charge of the relevant industries and the 
State Bureau of State-Asset Management and that their main tasks 
be to coordinate the relationships between the objectives of the 
government's management of the industries and the objectives of 
enterprises' business operations in an appropriate manner and to 
ensure state-owned enterprises's effective playing their leaning 
role on the basis of those enterprises' improving the efficiency 
of their business operations. Those branch offices not only 
perform the function of managing, on a full-time basis, property 
rights over the state-owned enterprises supervised by agencies 
in charge of the respective industries, but also perform the 
functions of analyzing and studying the situation regarding 
business operations based on the assets of the state-owned 
enterprises in their respective industries (including the 
state-owned enterprises which are in those industries but which 
are not subordinates of the agencies in charge of those 
industries) and of timely submitting to superior agencies 
advisory suggestions on adjusting the scale and structure of 
business operations based on state assets in their respective 
industries and on the formulating of policies on the relevant 
business operations. At the same time, it is necessary to 
establish a corresponding management system to prevent the 
phenomenon of excessive direct intervention carried out by the 
agencies in charge of the relevant industries in the business 
activities of state-owned enterprises. 
  To ensure effective management of the state-owned shares of 
joint-stock enterprises and Chinese-foreign joint ventures, the 
central and local governments can also establish state 
assets-based business companies, investment companies, and 
holding companies to be engaged exclusively in performing the 
function of managing the state-owned shares in view of the 
actual needs. Those companies' serving as intermediaries between 
the government and state-owned joint-stock enterprises is 
conducive to both weakening government agencies' direct 
administrative intervention in enterprises' business activities 
and the effective functioning of state-owned shares in the 
market economy, thereby contributing to the effort to have 
state-owned shares managed by enterprises engaged exclusively in 
such management. 
<H5>  Level of Enterprises' Management of State's Property Rights </H5>
  In terms of enterprises, being transformed into corporations 
represents the inevitable trend in the reform of the property 
right system governing most state-owned enterprises. With the 
establishment of the corporate system and the development of the 
socialist market economy, the forms of enterprise organizations 
based on state assets in our country will become increasingly 
diversified and complex. Vertically, with the extension of the 
chain of property investment of enterprises, there have now 
emerged business operations based on property rights at several 
levels such as those of state-owned parent companies, 
subsidiaries, and subsidiaries' subsidiaries. Horizontally, with 
the diversification of actors investing in companies, there have 
emerged several types of property right organization such as 
sole state ownership, joint ventures between the state and 
enterprise legal persons, joint ventures between the central and 
local governments, joint ventures among the state, enterprise 
legal persons, and individuals, joint ventures between 
enterprise legal persons, and Chinese-foreign joint ventures. In 
correspondence with those forms are a number of forms of 
enterprise organization such as solely state-owned companies, 
state-owned limited liability companies, and state-owned 
joint-stock limited liability companies. Obviously, the ways and 
contents of the government's state-asset management of those 
state-owned companies of different types will be very different. 
For instance, the government maintains direct property-right 
constraining relationships with state-owned parent companies, 
but does not have direct property right relationships with 
state-owned enterprises' subsidiaries and the subsidiaries of 
state-owned enterprises' subsidiaries, of which property right 
management is mainly carried out by the parent companies. Take 
another example. With regard to state-owned joint-stock 
companies of various types, the state performs its equity 
management function mainly through participating in the general 
meetings of shareholders, boards of directors, and boards of 
supervisors in ways determined by the proportions of its 
directly held shares under the corporation law. As for solely 
state-owned companies, the government carries out property right 
management of those companies mainly through selecting members 
of the boards of directors or boards of supervisors as well as 
top management personnel and having the boards of directors or 
boards of supervisors serve as intermediaries in accordance with 
the special laws formulated by the state to govern those 
companies. Authorized by the government's state-asset management 
agencies, the boards of directors or boards of supervisors 
perform the function of actually managing the property rights on 
behalf of the state. To provide support in this regard, the 
government's state-asset management agencies should establish a 
set of effective systems of management of state-owned shares, 
including the system of hiring and evaluating representatives of 
state-owned shares, system of business operations based on 
state-owned shares, and system of making statistical reports on 
business operations based on state-owned shares. 
  With regard to the state-owned enterprises which will not 
be, 
or which will for the time being not be, transformed into 
corporations, it is necessary to further perfect the contracting 
system and leasing system and have contracting agreements or 
leasing agreements formulated in a more standardized and 
scientific way because contracting agreements and leasing 
agreements are the main means through which the government 
manages the state's property rights. One line of thought which 
can be selected would suggest the adoption, on the basis of 
implementing the new accounting system, of a system of 
contracted responsibility for business operations which is 
mainly based on evaluating performance in regard to the 
preserving and increasing of the value of net assets of 
state-owned enterprises. At the same time, it is proper to 
consider establishing offices in charge of supervising and 
managing property rights in enterprises, offices which will 
resemble boards of supervisors in corporations; the boards of 
supervisors are to be composed of representatives of the 
government's state-asset management agencies, party 
organizations at the enterprises, and trade union organizations, 
and will be responsible mainly for monitoring and regulating the 
situation regarding the preserving and increasing of the values 
of the relevant enterprises' state assets. 

