Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] ARENA [Nationalist Republican Alliance] and the 
FMLN [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front] have agreed 
that the human rights report, which is to be prepared by a 
United Nations delegate whom -- it is said -- the government 
denied entry to the country, should not be based on Onusal [UN 
Observers for El Salvador] documents. 
  It has been unofficially disclosed that Pedro (?Nicken), an 
independent Onusal human rights investigator, will work on a 
report on human rights in El Salvador from another country 
because he has been denied entry to El Salvador. The report 
will be based on Onusal documents. 
  Dr. Miguel Saenz of the FMLN said the government did, in 
fact, deny the UN delegate entry to the country, but he added 
that the report the delegate intends to prepare will not be as 
accurate if it is not based on information confirmed in El 
Salvador. 
  [Begin Saenz recording] It is one thing to prepare a report 
based on other reports, and quite another to go to the scene and 
directly and objectively determine what the facts are. 
  However, when an (?expert's) entry into the country is not 
facilitated, [words indistinct] so people who must assess the 
human rights situation in El Salvador can form a clear idea of 
the country's true situation. [end recording] 
  Meanwhile, ARENA Deputy Rene Figueroa agreed with Saenz that 
the report should not be based on Onusal documents. In 
Figueroa's opinion, the report will provide unreliable 
information on human rights in El Salvador if it is based on 
Onusal documents. 
  [Begin Figueroa recording] I do not think it would be to our 
advantage for this gentleman to base his report on Onusal 
documents, because Onusal's information is already somewhat 
outdated. I am not trying to detract from the good job Onusal 
has done, but the report should be based on updated information 
on human rights improvements in our country. 
  We are aware that [words indistinct] for this gentleman to 
do 
his work, and the government has never denied him entry. The 
problem is -- I repeat -- that the permit for him to work in El 
Salvador arrived one day late. [end recording] 
  Figueroa said the information the delegate uses for his 
report could be provided by other institutions such as the 
Attorney General's Office or the Salvadoran Human Rights 
Commission. 

