CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A. Postnikov, corresponding member of </F>
Rosselkhozakademiya and A. Kondratenko, chief specialist of 
Glavkhimzashchita, Minselkhozprod of Russia: "Tactics in the Use 
of Fertilizer"] 
  [Text] Snow in Yevdokiya (14 March) -- for a fine harvest. 
National signs undergo the test of time and, as a rule, are 
justified. Truly, the March snow adds moisture to the ground and 
ensures that the plants have moisture during the first months of 
growth. It is unfortunate that full use will not be made of this 
gift of nature: a nutrient shortage in the soil over a periof of 
three years has defined the existence of the crops for six 
months. 
  The situation could be saved by mineral fertilizer, but the 
amount accumulated for the spring field work is less by a factor 
of eight than that which the farms had during the so-called 
stagnant years. In late February, the government of Russia 
allocated special purpose credits and 30-percent subsidies for 
the acquisition of mineral fertilizer and yet it is doubtful if 
this will save the situation. 
  Therefore, special importance is being attached to managing 
our fertilizer resources in an efficient manner so as to realize 
a maximum return from them. The undersowing of winter crops, 
unfertilized fallow fields and late fall plowed fields and a 
large volume of spring plowing work -- all of these factors 
demand the introduction of corrections into the plans for 
fertilizer use in 1994. 
  Winter grain crops. Since autumn, many farms have 
not had an opportunity to enrich the fields with nutrients. Even 
farms in Krasnodar Kray sowed more than one half of their winter 
crops without fertilizer. The moisture supplies in the 1-meter 
layer of soil are higher than normal in practically all areas 
and this will ensure normal plant development during the first 
two months of growth. But even the small supplies of nitrogen 
have been washed out of the surface soil by the autumn rainfall 
and will be unavailable for plant nourishment in the early 
spring. 
  According to data supplied by the agrochemical service, the 
winter grain crops in practically all areas are in need of a 
nitrogen fertilizer top dressing. The planning and research 
centers of the agrochemical service, at the request of the farms 
and private farmers, are conducting plant diagnoses and the 
plant protection stations -- phyto-sanitary inspections of the 
crops and issuing recommendations for the use of fertilizer and 
pesticides. 
  Weak winter crops, and there are many of them in the 
southern 
regions, should be given a top dressing using higher dosages of 
nitrogen -- 45-60 kilograms per hectare. This will intensify the 
tillering and increase the plant stand density. On the left bank 
of the Volga, where a summer droght is possible, the nitrogen 
dosages should ideally be reduced to 20 kilograms per hectare. 
  Intensive crops require a root dressing using nitrogen and 
complex fertilizers, with application to the ground being 
carried out using grain drills. The tilling of mature soil 
should be carried out along the drill rows. In the process, the 
plow itself will find the inter-row spacing -- the top dressing 
is combined with loosening of the soil. 
  We recommend the extensive use of tank mixtures of 
fertilizers, pesticides and plant growth regulators. In addition 
to making it possible to utilize aviation and ground equipment 
more effectively, this will also lower expenditures for toxic 
chemicals per unit of area so treated. In the absence of 
fungicides for preventing fungus diseases, solutions of 
potassium chloride and ZhKU can also be used in the tank 
mixtures. This simple agrotechnical method will also make it 
possible to strengthen the straw and to reduce lodging to a 
certain degree. 
  A high probability of lodging in winter wheat and rye is 
forecast for the central chernozem region, Ulyanovsk and 
Orenburg oblasts and for Tataria and Bashkiria. The rayon 
associations of "Selkhozshimiya" must find supplies of campozan 
and tura. According to our data, they are available in various 
areas. 
  Last year, a top dressing was applied to practically all of 
the winter crops in the Tatarstan and Mariy El republics, in 
Krasnodar Kray and in Belgorod, Ulyanovsk, Ryazan, Tversk and a 
number of other oblasts. Despite equal opportunities, less than 
one half of the crops in Rostov, Samara, Penza and Nizhegorod 
oblasts were given a top dressing and this can only be explained 
by the unsatisfactory work performed by specialists attached to 
the agronomic and agrochemical service. 
  Field work in southern Russia is being carried out at a 
maximum tempo. More than one half of the crops in the Kuban 
region have already been given a top dressing. The first 
aircraft have appeared above the fields in the central chernozem 
and central Volga regions. More than 600 aircraft have been 
prepared for applying top dressings. However, agreements for 
carrying out aviation chemical work have been concluded for only 
two million hectares, or one fourth of the requirement. 
  The Belgorod "Selkhozkhimiya" Association, for example, 
reached an agreement with supplier plants for a shipment of 
ammonium nitrate with no pre-payment for proper storage. As a 
result, the oblast's farms were fully supplied with nitrogen for 
applying a top dressing to their winter grains and perennial 
grasses. The possibility exists in many regions of exchanging 
agricultural products for fertilizer and pesticides. 
  Certainly, given the present price for grain, fertilizer and 
aviation chemical work, only an increase in yield can compensate 
for the expenses incurred. But it can be stated with confidence 
that each ruble invested in a top dressing produces a return of 
two rubles' worth of additional product. 
  Spring crops. A great amount of attention should 
be devoted to the start-up fertilizer used in drill rows during 
sowing. This method can produce a maximum effect with minimal 
expenditures. In the case of spring plowing, and the volumes of 
such work have increased considerably, the plants will 
experience a shortage of nitrogen in the spring, especially when 
a large amount of culmiferous residue is added to the soil. Thus 
it is best to add all round fertilizer together with the seed -- 
each granule containing nitrogen and phosphorus. A mandatory 
agrotechnical rule prevails for the Volga region, the southern 
Ural area and Siberia -- drill row fertilization, with 
phosphorus, of spring wheat plantings on fallow fields. 
Phosphorus fertilizer helps the plants to take root better and, 
by accelerating growth, enables them to withstand the effects of 
drought conditions. 
  In the spring, an attempt should be made to avoid extensive 
fertilizer applications with light tilling, since such placement 
leads to vigorous weed growth, with no materials being available 
to deal with them. The weeds become strong competitors against 
cultivated plants for the utilization of moisture and nutrients. 
  This year the local fertilizing of row crops should be 
combined with top dressings during the growing season. This 
method can be used very well with loosening of the soil and with 
combating weeds. Last year, one out of every four hectares of 
sugar beets in Voronezh, Tambov and Penza oblasts was not 
fertilized. At that time, the beets in the mentioned regions did 
not enjoy a "sweet" life and thus it should come as no surprise 
to learn that their productivity declined by 30 percent compared 
to the average annual figure for the 1986-1990 period. 
  Fertilization in behalf of sunflowers should be discussed 
separately. It is difficult to exaggerate the importance of this 
crop in solving the food problem. Why then is it viewed as a 
stepchild? As a rule, it is consigned to last place in a crop 
rotation plan and thus there can be no discussion regarding the 
residual effect of nutrients. Last year, 15 kilograms of 
fertilizer were applied per hectare of sunflower planting in 
Tambov Oblast, 10 kilograms in Penza and Samara and five 
kilograms per hectare in Orenburg Oblast. Generally speaking, 
such fertilization was overlooked in Saratov Oblast. And here 
they obtained 4.5 quintals of oil-bearing seed per hectare, or 
two times less than the average amount for Russia. 
  Farmyard manure and compost remain the principal fertilizers 
for potatoes and vegetables. Last year, throughout Russia on the 
whole, organic fertilizer was applied to less than one half of 
the potato-growing area and only to one out of every six 
hectares of vegetable crop. Farms in Tula, Voronezh, Volgograd, 
Kurgan, Novosibirsk and Amur oblasts were unable to procure 
enough farmyard manure for this purpose. Certainly, if a potato 
and vegetable yield of 80-100 quintals or less per hectare is 
considered normal, then it is possible to manage with the soil's 
natural fertility. 
  This year, the best periods for transporting organic 
fertilizer for winter crop purposes have already elapsed. Owing 
to an absence of requests from the farms, the mechanized 
detachments of "Selkhozkhimiya" were forced to release machine 
operators on unpaid vacation time or the latter had to seek work 
on the side, including in neighboring oblasts. Over a period of 
two months, two times less organic fertilizer was delivered to 
the fields than during the same period for last year. Thus we 
recommend the use of farmyard manure for vegetables and potatoes 
and also in farm crop rotation plans. Applications of low 
dosages of fresh unprepared farmyard manure in field crop 
rotation plans must also be eliminated and it must not be 
removed from manure piles by bulldozers and toothless drag 
harrows, since this leads to strong contamination of the crops, 
lodging and irregular ripening and also to an excessive 
accumulation of nitrates in the products. 
  The fertilization of irrigated crops is deserving of special 
attention. Indeed, all irrigation expenses are justified only 
when guaranteed high yields are obtained from these lands, 
regardless of weather conditions. There are approximately 
400,000 hectares of irrigated land in Saratov Oblast, the 
fertilization of which requires 80,000-90,000 tonnes of mineral 
fertilizer in active agent. Meanwhile, the farmers in Saratov 
Oblast received only 15,000 tonnes last year for all of their 
land -- both irrigated and non-irrigated. It comes as no 
surprise to learn that the productivity of an irrigated hectare 
turned out to be three times lower than the figure planned. Nor 
is the situation any better in Volgograd, Penza and Omsk 
oblasts, in the Altay Kray or in the republics of Dagestan and 
Kalmykia. 

