Language: <F P=105> French </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article: "Robsyc Born of CEA Alliance With B + </F>
Developpement"] 
  [Text] The robotics unit of the CEA [Atomic Energy 
Commission], located at Fontenay aux Roses (Hauts de Seine), and 
B + Developpement, have developed a robot, Robsyc, capable of 
repositioning small objects accurately and rapidly. Robsyc is 
probably the world's fastest robot today over long 
distances--1.5 meters--owing to accelerations of 8 G, and is 
capable of handling randomly positioned containers weighing 2 
kilograms, lift them by means of suction at the rate of 80 
containers per minute, and reposition them in orderly layers at 
the rate of 8 meters per second. Its precision of plus or minus 
0.5 mm is provided by a simple mechanism based on flat belting 
and capable of four degrees of freedom. B + Developpement (18 
persons and annual revenue of 20 million francs) is located in 
Gemenos, near Marseille. It specializes in "mechanotronics" and 
works under contract on new designs of materials-handling 
robots. According to Gilbert Gras, a B + Developpement engineer, 
Robsyc's capabilities are essentially the result of the very 
innovative architecture of its command control system. To the 
classic "process + corrector" system, the CEA has added three 
model modules: inverse, observer-predictor, and behavior. The 
combination corrects, in real time, the difference between 
calculated and actual trajectories, by means of rapid computing 
cards based on distributed signal processing using industrial 
PC's. Today, Robsyc is a feasibility demonstrator prototype. In 
the coming months, B + Developpement will adapt it to 
multiple-object selective sorting (handling of wholesale 
pharmacist deliveries), and emboxing (depositing of products in 
cellular-like container or arrangement of containers) for the 
agricultural food products industry (fancy boxed chocolates, for 
example). 

