Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, January 25 (XINHUA) -- The Chinese Academy 
of Sciences (CAS) netted 46 national academic prizes and many 
international prizes for research results in 1993, a CAS 
spokesman said today. 
  He said the country's most authoritative academic body and 
comprehensive Natural Sciences Research Center made remarkable 
progress last year in basic and applied sciences, technology 
exploration and research for the public good. 
  CAS was honored with National Natural Science Awards for 20 
research results, National Awards for Scientific and 
Technological Progress for 21 results and National Invention 
Awards for the other five, the spokesman told the press. 
  CAS also won widespread international acclaim, he said. 
Internationally recognized research results include the Liquid 
Crystal Biomembrane Theory, which won "an outstanding 
achievement award in physics" in 1993, and an 
independently-developed 2.16 meter telescope for observing space. 
  Other projects embraced computer control, laser processing 
and automation of industrial production in some fields. And 
some new drugs, species and living substances were produced in 
genetic and cytological projects, he added. 
  The highest academic body also produced some influential 
reports last year on environmental protection, effective use of 
China's human resources and the role of overall government 
control as the country converts to a market economy, the 
spokesman said. 

