Language: <F P=105>Korean </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The South Korean puppets committed a grave military 
provocation by illegally infiltrating a combat ship deep into 
our side's territorial waters on the West Sea yesterday [5 
December]. 
  At around 1358 [1058 GMT] yesterday, in broad daylight, the 
South Korean puppets infiltrated three combat ships from 
Taechongdo into our side's territorial waters. The combat ship 
group, which infiltrated deeply into our side's territorial 
waters, undertook a combat formation near Chaejak-ri, 
Ongjin-county, South Hwanghae Province with the purpose of 
realizing a hostile attempt. 
  The Korean People's Army's Navy patrol ships, which were 
thoroughly defending the sea guardpost of our socialist 
fatherland, immediately went to the spot and the sea-based 
cannons [haesangpo] undertook a combat posture to take a 
self-defensive measure. Taken by surprise, the rascals 
hurriedly fled southward. 
  The South Korean puppets' reckless maritime infiltration 
activity is a deliberate and premeditated military provocation 
to aggravate artificially the tension on the Korean peninsula. 
  The South Korean puppets should deeply consider the grave 
consequence of the rascals' military provocation and should not 
act rashly. 
  If the South Korean puppets constantly go down the road of 
confrontation and war in spite of our repeated warning, our 
people and People's Army will impose a thousand-fold stern 
retaliation against the aggressors. 

