Language: <F P=105> Portuguese </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Brazilian President Itamar Franco and Colombian 
President Cesar Gaviria today created a commission to fight drug 
trafficking between the two countries. President Franco was in 
Leticia, Colombia, at the Brazilian border this morning. 
  [Begin unidentified reporter recording] Tabatinga, in the 
Amazon, is a border town where Brazil ends and Colombia begins. 
It does not produce anything, and its life depends on the 
government. Leticia, in Colombia, is in the same condition. The 
difference is that Leticia is in a country where the inflation 
rate does not reach 2 percent a month. But as the two towns are 
so close, the people experience the same social problems. 
Therefore the only solution for them is joint economic 
development. 
  This is why President Itamar Franco came to Colombia to 
install with Colombian President Cesar Gaviria a neighborhood 
commission. From now on businessmen and representatives of the 
two governments will meet periodically in the border towns to 
discuss and find solutions to improving the standard of living 
of the population of the two towns. For example, the commission 
will carry out joint actions to fight cholera, and even drug 
trafficking, because a large part of the cocaine that goes to 
Europe and the United States comes from Colombian to Brazil 
through the Solimoes and Amazon Rivers. 
  In the speeches installing the commission, the presidents of 
Colombian and Brazil agreed that the union of the South American 
countries is the best way for development. [end recording] 

