BFN 

<F P=106> [From the "Seven O'Clock Newscast"] </F>
  [Text] Government, political, and church sectors have 
expressed opposition to the Constitutional Court's decision to 
legalize personal doses of certain drugs. The impossible seems 
to have occurred in Colombia: Everyone agreed on the same issue. 
  National Drug Director Gabriel Vega, presidential candidates 
Andres Pastrana [Conservative Party]; Ernesto Samper [Liberal 
Party]; Antonio Navarro Wolff [19 April Movement Democratic 
Alliance]; Miguel Maza [National Civic Consensus]; and Episcopal 
Conference President Monsignor Pedro Rubiano oppose the decision. 
  [Begin recording] [Vega] I heard the court president say 
these drugs are similar to alcohol, which is untrue. I asked 
him how a child of 11, 12, 13, or 14 could make a responsible 
decision concerning drug use. 
  [Pastrana] I respect the court's decision, but I disagree 
with it. 
  [Samper] The legalization or acceptance of a personal dose 
in 
a country such as Colombia, which is known as a producer and 
where one assumes large quantities of drugs are readily 
available, constitutes a dangerous step. 
  [Navarro] I sincerely do not like the decision because it 
will not resolve the problem and will create a debate that will 
confuse many. 
  [Maza] I cannot understand how a court of such importance 
can 
manage to pass such a legal atrocity, knowingly, because they 
must know this: They are creating many ills for Colombia. 
  [Rubiano] In view of this country's realities and people, we 
must keep the common good in mind. I wonder what good it can do 
the country to legalize drugs now. [end recording] 

