<P>
Andre Jardin's "Tocqueville," surprisingly the first full-scale biography of 
this major 19th-Century figure, is a fine, old-fashioned piece of work, some of 
it original, much of it taken from the ample precedent scholarship. It provides 
an abundant store of information and an occasional surprise -- a dozen years 
after its publication, we find the author of "Democracy in America," now 
minister of foreign affairs, exclaiming: "But what animals these Americans 
are!" 
</P>
<P>
It is as the author of "Democracy in America" that Tocqueville is known in this 
country; but what this biography reveals is not so much an admirer of America 
as a Frenchman of his time, circumstance and needs, even when he is in America. 
He came here with his friend Beaumont ostensibly as a student of penitentiary 
reform, but Tocqueville really wanted to take a larger look at this new 
republic, since it was clear to him that the European drift was in that 
direction, and what intrigued him was its democratic base, since he had been 
brought up to believe that a republic could function only when run by a 
virtuous elite. We know what he found and how he responded, but the biography 
also reveals, almost inadvertently, why he was such an accurate and 
comparatively unbiased observer. 
</P>
<P>
For one thing, he had not biased himself by reading contemporary travel 
literature, much of it written by snide Tories pretending to take an 
unprejudiced look at the American experiment. Capt. Basil Hall's infamous 
"Travels" had been only partially translated (the chapter on prison reform) 
into French, and, in any event, it was his companion Beaumont who read it. The 
result was that Tocqueville's vision had not been prejudiced (other than by his 
relative Chateaubriand's romance with New World nature). For another, 
Tocqueville and Beaumont readied themselves each day by preparing questions for 
the people they would meet, questions based upon their own observations sur 
place and designed to elicit responses useful to them as Frenchmen trying to 
prepare themselves for a possible future. They were not, as were the Tories, 
justifying a past. 
</P>
<P>
Tocqueville's Cartesian clarity, his relative lack of bias, meant that he used 
the answers to his questions to form a useful statement about America, but the 
questions themselves and their reasons reveal perhaps even more about France. 
By looking at this intelligent, open-minded, and inquiring young civil servant 
and nobleman of impeccable political parentage (great grandson of Malesherbes), 
Jardin's book provides the American reader a marvelous introduction to the 
political shiftings, the gradual yet sometimes violent post-revolutionary 
cracking of the political structure in France as it grappled simultaneously 
with the shattered legitimacy of the past, a slippery present and an 
ill-defined future. 
</P>
<P>
After the immediate success of "Democracy in America" (1835), Tocqueville 
entered the political arena and was elected deputy for the arrondissement of 
Valognes, the region of his family castle in Normandy. He sat left of center in 
the Chamber. Although many at the time thought of him as an Carlist aristocrat 
and some in this country think of him as an American-style conservative, 
Tocqueville considered the old aristocracy "dead for ever." Over the years, he 
demonstrated his liberalism by fighting for parliamentary monarchy, separation 
of church and state, reform of the suffrage laws, improvement of the worker's 
lot, for liberalizing public education, abolishing slavery wherever it existed, 
improving the prison system and eliminating poverty. He managed, nevertheless, 
to stay clear of several more powerful champions of liberal causes such as 
Lamartine, Royer-Collard, and Thiers, who would have liked to have him on their 
side but whose egos he mistrusted. 
</P>
<P>
Independence is what most characterizes Tocqueville's career. A colleague 
reproached him for "giving the right hand to the left, the left to the right 
and regretting that he does not have a third one to give invisibly." "Freedom 
is the strongest of my passions. Voila. It is the truth," he explained to 
disconcerted observers. If he moved left, it was, he claimed, to impose his 
color on the left, not change his own. 
</P>
<P>
Another constant was his hatred of centralization. In "L'Ancien Regime et la 
Revolution," Tocqueville analyzed the roots of centralization in France, which 
according to him went as far back as the reign of Philip the Fair in the Middle 
Ages. He lamented the fact that centralization had destroyed time-tested local 
organic structures and that the French nobility itself was at fault in the 
process. Tocqueville fought centralism in all of its manifestations as he saw 
them. For instance, rather an agnostic himself, he defended religious education 
because he believed in the healthy necessity of a third force besides the state 
and the people. 
</P>
<P>
Tocqueville's anticentralism colored his responses to the various colonial 
enterprises that characterize European history of the period. Thus, in newly 
conquered Algeria, he favored a kind of settlement based on local autonomy 
rather than central metropolitan power. He was the first man in the Chamber to 
push for a separate ministry for Algeria -- a dream that became a fact only a 
century later in Leon Blum's cabinet. He deplored the downfall of the Ottoman 
Empire in the Middle East, since the Turks were not only a desirable bumper 
between the major European predators, but also relatively tolerant themselves 
toward the diversity of their possessions. He admired the respect for local 
customs that the British had shown in India. 
</P>
<P>
Tocqueville was an active, intelligent legislator, esteemed particularly for 
his work on penitentiary reform (inspired by the Philadelphia system) and on 
the abolition of slavery, but he was not a sensational figurehead. One might 
say that, like Montaigne, he had lived through a great deal of political 
turmoil and managed to preserve an independent judgment. When Louis-Napoleon 
was propelled into the presidency at the end of the bloody 1848 revolution, 
Tocqueville was given the foreign affairs ministry in the Barrot cabinet. He 
served with the same unsensational distinction as in the Chamber but was fired 
after only five months. He had protested Louis-Napoleon's coup d'etat that made 
an emperor of the president and was briefly imprisoned in Vincennes -- luckier 
in this than one of our great-grandfathers, who was sent to the Sahara for the 
same offense. From then to his death from tuberculosis in Cannes in 1859, 
Tocqueville led the life of a gentleman farmer and journalist who, amid 
numerous changes of residence to accommodate his health, wrote (but did not 
finish) "L'Ancien Regime et la Revolution." 
</P>
<P>
This long and scrupulous study of a man who was one of the most profound and 
prophetic thinkers of his time, is, alas, scrupulous to the point of boredom. 
The narration rarely deviates from an inexhaustible concatenation of facts 
related in the soberest of prose. Although it does justice to Tocqueville's 
ideas, it fails in rendering the passion and the grace of his intellectual life 
and the social brilliance of the era. Moreover, the book is curiously 
organized: The order followed a mixture of the chronological and of the 
thematic, with several baffling leaps from one to the other. Andre Jardin's 
work constitutes an excellent work of reference for the scholar. It is indexed 
and substantially but not cumbersomely footnoted. Still it makes the layman 
yearn for the livelier manner of much recent historical writing. 
</P>
