<P>
As they allocated full supplies of water to farm and city customers this past 
year, federal and state water managers frequently noted that California had not 
suffered three consecutive drought years in modern history, and possibly not 
since the 16th Century. The odds of a third straight drought year in 1989 were 
figured at only 1 in 10. Those calculations may fit some venerable statistical 
formula, but any lay person can see with a glance at snow and rainfall records 
that dry years come together often. Thus it would have been prudent for all of 
California to have been on a drought-emergency footing this past year. 
</P>
<P>
With the state almost certain to have a third drought year, water officials now 
must move quickly to impose realistic conservation standards. Then they should 
begin making some hard-nosed decisions about what to do in the event of a 
fourth drought year in 1990. This is what both San Francisco and Oakland water 
officials have been doing for a full year. 
</P>
<P>
Three drought years may be rare, but prolonged dry periods are not. There were 
four drought years and two below-normal years in 1929-34. Just since 1976 there 
have been four drought years and three sub-normal years. A very wet spell 
during 1982-84 allowed water managers to fill up the state's reservoirs. But 
that cushion is gone now. 
</P>
<P>
This seems to have been a wintry winter in Los Angeles. But the rains and snows 
that count are those falling in the Sierra Nevada and the Rocky Mountains, the 
major sources of the region's imported water. Both the Los Angeles Department 
of Water and Power and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California 
deserve credit for implementing aggressive voluntary conservation campaigns in 
the past two years. But the key word is voluntary. There has been no sense of 
crisis in Southern California, and the campaigns have not achieved their modest 
goals of 10% savings. 
</P>
<P>
With agriculture enjoying a relative boom for the past two years, there has 
been heavy pressure on the state Water Project and the federal Central Valley 
Project to make full deliveries to irrigators. If 1989 continues dry, however, 
farm customers can expect a reduction of up to 40%. Those decisions in 
Sacramento should be made soon. Water officials are sensitive about hurting the 
farm economy, but many farmers can compensate for the cutback by pumping 
groundwater. 
</P>
<P>
Los Angeles needs to implement its standby ordinance for 10% water rationing 
soon and to be ready for even tougher restrictions if mountain snowpacks 
continue to dwindle. Most residents can save that much without inconvenience by 
cutting back on outdoor use, like watering lawns less frequently but more 
thoroughly. 
</P>
<P>
Both San Francisco and Oakland had 25% rationing in effect this past year 
because they lack Southern California's reservoir capacity and depend more 
directly on each year's snowmelt.In San Francisco, outdoor water use was 
reduced by 60%. The East Bay's water district had an overall saving of 26%. 
With even half that effort, Southern California should be able to get through 
another drought year without undue inconvenience. But first, officials need to 
raise the level of consciousness about the severity of the drought and tell 
area residents clearly that some sacrifices will have to be made, and soon. 
</P>
