<P>
These essays and color photographs of clothing, housing, weapons and icons are 
especially striking because they show how traditional Indian culture has done 
away with the dualisms that rock Western culture: Dualisms between art (what 
Westerners believe they see in a museum or theater) and life (the daily 
routine); dreams (diverting reveries) and wakefulness ("reality"); nature (that 
which is outside of us) and culture (that which we create). In traditional 
Native America, Anna Walters shows, dreams offer direction in life, culture 
emerges from nature (which is both inside and around us) and art and life are 
intertwined. 
</P>
<P>
An example of the latter is suggested in a photograph of Indian sheaths for 
rifles which had been inherited from Western settlers. Transforming the merely 
efficient objects into cultural artifacts, the sheaths were richly painted to 
reflect nature's harmony and tapered into long, thin strands of hide at the 
rifle's end to suggest the source of the object's destructive power. This 
crystallizing of invisible forces is the principle purpose behind all of the 
art portrayed in these pages. As one "artist-spirit" fictionalized by Walters 
recounts, "When I was a young child, I already knew there were playful spirits 
in the wind, in the lizard sitting motionlessly on my hand. . . . I felt there 
was something that was unseen in me, but nevertheless was the link to 
everything else here." 
</P>
<P>
Walters' "spirit-voices" sometimes grow tiresome, breathlessly intoning the 
same message about spiritual omnipresence ("The nations live! My spirit lives! 
The spiritual world is everywhere!"), but more often they convey a message 
reassuring to those concerned about the ephemerality of life. "Having been born 
into the (Indian) nations," one voice says, "I know with profound certainty 
that infinite life is beauty." 
</P>
