<P>
Tom Jackson, a lifelong diabetic, has had to have shots twice a day, every day 
for the past 21 years. He carries his syringe and needle with him everywhere. 
Jackson, a mechanical engineer, was diagnosed with diabetes when he was 6 years 
old. At 8, he learned how to give himself the life-saving insulin injections so 
he could spend the night at friends' houses. Jackson says diabetes has not 
slowed him down -- if anything it has made him more independent. An avid nature 
lover, the native La Jollan has sailed and backpacked all over the world. 
Recently, Jackson took a group of diabetic teen-agers from the Whittier 
Institute for Diabetes and Endocrinology on a daylong sail on his boat. He 
wanted to do something to show these children that diabetes doesn't have to 
take control of their lives. Jackson lives with his wife and 5-week-old baby 
daughter on their sailboat on Shelter Island. Times staff writer Caroline Lemke 
interviewed him, and Robert Faaborg photographed him. 
</P>
<P>
My parents gave me my injections when I was 6 years old, but I learned pretty 
early, when I was 8, how to give my own shot. I remember it was a big deal. If 
I screwed up, it just hurt more. 
</P>
<P>
After a while, it becomes like brushing your teeth. The injections aren't the 
hard part. I think the hard part is avoiding the complications. You don't want 
to overeat or undereat, and you have to make sure to eat the right stuff. 
</P>
<P>
I've always gone backpacking or hiking all through grade school and high 
school. I think the only difference is, I have diabetes. When I was 16, I 
traveled through Central America by myself. When I was 18, I worked on boats 
and just did odd jobs through college and did boat deliveries up and down 
Mexico's coast. 
</P>
<P>
I did a five-week, cross-country trip with my cousin and my wife before we were 
married, and we never once came out of the mountains. Five weeks with hardly 
seeing a trace of another human being. We packed in our food ahead of time and 
just hiked from food drop to food drop. It was a great trip. When we finally 
came out on the trails and saw people, it was quite a shock. We had been living 
pretty simply, and things seemed very complex when we got out. 
</P>
<P>
With this sailing trip last week, there were six kids from the Whittier 
Institute, and they were all diabetic. We talked about a lot of things -- 
insulin control and independence and dependence. We really developed some 
teamwork because you're fairly dependent on each other when you're sailing. 
</P>
<P>
But, more importantly, I let them know that diabetes doesn't have to be an 
anchor tied around them. They can carry the weight, and it becomes lighter and 
lighter as they stay in control and just face up to the fact they have 
diabetes. 
</P>
<P>
I have to admit, though, I'm lucky. It doesn't get frustrating for me. I've had 
a lot of exercise, and I haven't had any complications. I'm not saying there 
aren't people who aren't frustrated out there, because there are some serious 
complications. But it doesn't have to be such a big deal that it controls your 
life. 
</P>
<P>
I try to be an independent person. You see more that way, and you see it on 
your own. It's worth the effort. It's definitely not the path of least 
resistance, it's the path of greatest resistance a lot of times because there 
are people who think you're crazy for going out and doing things, like living 
on a houseboat. But I enjoy it. You get the opportunity to see places and meet 
people and experience different cultures that you sure wouldn't see if you just 
sat around. You might read about it, but you'll never get that rush of 
excitement from finding it out on your own. 
</P>
<P>
The world is a pretty neat place, but it's becoming smaller. I'm in a little 
bit of a rush to show Sarah (his daughter) some natural places while they're 
still natural. Just the places I've seen, I go back to them now, and there's 
concrete and signs and people. You can go to these national parks, but that's a 
wilderness with a boundary. The ocean is the one place I see that is limitless. 
</P>
