<P>
"A Bridge Between Two Worlds" (June 17) is a commendable account of Jack West, 
the person chosen to head the new American Indian Museum planned to be built in 
Washington D.C. Mr. West has an amazingly strong background, and I admire his 
strength and endurance as an attorney who defends Indian issues in Washington. 
Being half Indian and half Anglo, he has the ability to bridge both worlds. 
</P>
<P>
I find the fact that the museum will be called "American Indian Museum" has a 
demeaning effect. It should be called the "Native American Museum." This title 
would give a more concrete statement to the American public. After all, Native 
Americans were here for centuries before "settlers," and hasn't that been the 
catalyst of their struggle all along? 
</P>
<P>
I wonder how this museum will serve those it intends to honor? Will it help the 
Sioux Indians in South Dakota get decent water to drink on their reservation? 
Will it help living conditions improve on any of the impoverished reservations 
in this country? It is about time something is being done to improve the image 
of one of the longest-standing one-with-nature cultures ever to exist on this 
planet. 
</P>
<P>
I am an educator working in vocational education for child-care occupations. I 
have seen very little quality curriculum that presents Native Americans with 
respect. I am working to do what I can. I hope this rebuttal to the article 
will stimulate other educators to improve the image they are presenting to 
their students when it comes to Native Americans. 
</P>
<P>
DIANE HAWKINS 
</P>
<P>
Rowland Heights 
</P>
