<P>
The after-dinner cigar is pretty much a thing of the past in American 
restaurants today. Some eating places, of course, ban smoking altogether. 
Others allow cigarettes, but forbid cigars and pipes as well -- or, at the 
least, restrict the enjoyment of them to bar areas or lounges. 
</P>
<P>
At least one Los Angeles restaurateur thinks this is a shame, and has decided 
to do something about it -- once a month, at any rate. Starting Nov. 6, Patrick 
Terrail will institute monthly "Cigar Smokers' Nights" at his Ma Maison in West 
Hollywood's Ma Maison Sofitel Hotel. A special seven-course menu degustation 
(at $59 per person) will be offered in addition to the regular menu, and 
Dunhill will set up a "cigar buffet," offering a large selection of cigars to 
smokers who have not brought their own. A newly enlarged selection of Cognacs 
and other after-dinner drinks will supplement the cigars. 
</P>
<P>
"We have a lot of guests who enjoy a cigar after their meal," Terrail explains, 
"and usually we have to ask them to move to the bar. But somebody who spends a 
couple hundred dollars on a good meal doesn't necessarily want to be moved 
around the minute he's finished. So I decided to have one night a month when 
the cigar smoker would have the right of way." 
</P>
<P>
But won't the ghost of cigar smoke linger in the room for a day or two after 
the event, possibly offending later diners? Terrail replies that the entire 
roof of the restaurant opens, giving Ma Maison "wonderful ventilation." 
</P>
<P>
Cigar Smokers' Nights will be held on the first Monday of every month at Ma 
Maison until further notice. Terrail stresses, in conclusion, that non-cigar 
smokers will be welcome on these evenings -- "But, of course," he adds, "they 
won't be able to say, 'Will you please put that thing out.' " 
</P>
<P>
A NO-SHOW PLAN THAT MIGHT JUST FLY: Whenever the issue of charging restaurant 
"no-shows" for unkept reservations is being debated, supporters of the notion 
tend to point out that hotels do levy such charges; opponents counter that 
airlines do not. That latter point isn't completely valid anymore. The 
government of Singapore now permits all airlines serving that tiny nation to 
charge the equivalent of about $80 to customers who buy tickets and make 
reservations in Singapore itself and then let those reservations lapse. The 
airline no-show problem is particularly dire in Singapore, as it happens, since 
local law prohibits overbooking or the resale of seats which are already 
theoretically sold. 
</P>
<P>
NEW TABLES IN TOWN: Tara Govind, former co-proprietor of Gitanjali on La 
Cienega and proprietor of Shanta in Santa Monica, has remodeled the latter 
establishment and reopened it as British Raaj, featuring both traditional 
Northern Indian cuisine and a repertoire of Anglo-Indian dishes. . . . Other 
local restaurant newcomers include Hurry Curry of Tokyo in West Los Angeles, 
opened by the proprietors of the Famous Enterprise Fish Company in Santa 
Monica; the Star Cafe in Montrose, specializing in pasta and "gourmet pizza"; 
Manhattan West on La Cienega, said to be inspired by "New York's famed SoHo 
loft district"; the Malibu Deli in Malibu (where -- Celebrity Alert! -- Pia 
Zadora reportedly has been seen buying cookies for her children), and Raphael's 
Trattoria in Palm Springs, an offshoot of Raphael's in Beverly Hills. WHAT'S 
COOKIN': If you hurry, you might still be in time to find a place at tonight's 
second annual anniversary-and-Hallowe'en party at Champagne in West Los 
Angeles. A six-course dinner (culminating with a dessert called Chocolate 
Fright) will be served for $85 per person. There will be dancing to a live 
orchestra and costumes are encouraged. . . . If you're too late for the party 
tonight, you can catch up with Champagne proprietors Patrick and Sophie Healy 
when they join restaurant critic Larry Lipson, wine maker Randall Grahm (of 
Bonny Doon Vineyard), and wine educator Larry Tepper for an afternoon symposium 
on French food and California wine, next Sunday from noon to 3:30 p.m. at 
Champagne. The event, which costs $65 per person, is sponsored by the 
California State University, Northridge, extension program. Call (818) 885-2644 
for details. . . . Also next Sunday, chefs Guy Gabriele and Ramon Cardenas from 
Cafe Pierre in Manhattan Beach join colleagues Michel Blanchet of L'Ermitage, 
Robert Bell of Chez Melange, Jean-Pierre Bosc of Fennel, Claude Alrivy of Le 
Chardonnay, and Jean-Luc Chassereau of The Cookery in Sacramento in a 
celebration of the bicentennial of the French Revolution at the Culbertson 
Winery in Temecula. The chefs will collaborate on a menu that will attempt to 
demonstrate "the evolution of French cuisine both in its native country, the 
U.S.A. and the world." Music and dancing will also be featured at the all-day 
event. Call (213) 545-5252 for more information. 
</P>
