<P>
Living in post-heroic Japan, Yukio Mishima wanted something to revere. Not 
content merely to think worshipful thoughts, he pumped muscle into his frail 
frame, donned a French-designer military uniform, and, between cameo roles in 
yakuza (mob) flicks and photography sessions (with sword in the snow, arrow in 
the armpit, rose clenched in the teeth), set out to battle secular corruptions 
of every kind. 
</P>
<P>
He thus came to appear a hero, which proved fatal, since Mishima had no faith 
in the world of appearances. Heroes could not just dress the part, they had to 
act it. Yet without a war in which he could actively be heroic, Mishima staged 
wars in his writing, where he fought on behalf of romantic passion, the sea, 
the Emperor, etc. Then he took a scene he had enacted countless times in his 
fiction -- of ritual self-sacrifice -- and made it the last act of his life. 
</P>
<P>
If we continue to take notice of this by turns brilliant and erratic writer 20 
years after his death, perhaps it is because Mishima, almost alone of his 
generation, tried to reclaim an aura lost amid the smug, complacent materialism 
of postwar Japan. The exquisite style should not camouflage the fact that 
Mishima was a political writer on a mission: to reconsecrate a homeland on 
which might once again shine a sun "speckled with golden dust." 
</P>
<P>
This is the language of the seven stories collected here -- all, to varying 
degrees, literary "acts of worship." As such, they represent minor if telling 
repetitions of rituals enacted on a grander scale, often with greater coherence 
or conviction, in "Confessions of a Mask," "The Temple of the Golden Pavilion" 
or "The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea." John Bester, the accomplished 
translator, alerts us in his preface to traits as common to Mishima as they are 
to other great writers: "a certain restriction of theme; an evident 
self-indulgence." A few of these stories succumb to such liabilities. Some use 
them to impressive effect. 
</P>
<P>
A regular, even obsessive, subject of these writings is youth, as it edges 
toward the brink of some wickedness. Stories like "Cigarettes" and "Martyrdom" 
put a nearly playful use of decadent images to a serious purpose: "to overthrow 
the bourgeois world." In "Fountains in the Rain," a boy whips himself into a 
romantic frenzy, not for his girlfriend -- which would be a banal and 
predictable romance -- but for the chance to walk out on her. 
</P>
<P>
Even a fable like "Sea and Sunset," becomes an excuse to follow a young French 
shepherd who, bedazzled by a vision exhorting him to "go East," joins the Fifth 
Crusade, suffers en route in an Alexandrian slave market and later makes 
passage to India and eventually to a Zen monastery in Japan. It is Mishima's 
nod to Flaubert's "Salammbo," whose Orientalist style he evidently admired. 
</P>
<P>
"Raisin Bread" features an international cast of barbiturate-popping, 
suicide-talking drifters, who perform in succession the twist and a "primitive 
dance ritual" at a beach party, replete with bonfire, roasting pig and conga 
drums. These preliminaries, along with asides to the shark-nuptial passage in 
Lautreamont's "Maldoror," make possible the kinky menage a trois during which 
the hero munches on a moldy piece of raisin bread, "bitter and sour as ever, 
and the more he ate the more it clung around his mouth." 
</P>
<P>
However noxious, these youthful flowers of evil are preferable to Mishima's ode 
to healthy adolescence, the long and turgid "Sword." "Nothing matters but 
training." "We're here to suffer, not enjoy ourselves." Such lines are repeated 
by a group of young men, anxious to improve both fencing skills and character. 
Their submission to martial austerities, familiar at once to readers of 
Japanese comics and fans of Rocky/Rambo, is predicated on a befuddled wish: "He 
couldn't understand why society in general wasn't uncomplicated and beautiful, 
like the world of sport." 
</P>
<P>
The title story, and by far the finest work in the collection, is a haunting 
portrait of devotion to an ideal, at the cost of human feeling. A widow, age 
45, who "lacked all feminine appeal," becomes housekeeper to her poetry tutor. 
She is consumed by a "need to look up to someone," while he is consumed by the 
memory of a lost love. Deformed by "excessive self-awareness, like wings 
unsuitably large for the body," he responds to his admiring housekeeper with a 
medieval injunction ("the importance in art of concealing one's emotions"), 
calculated to repress and stifle love. 
</P>
<P>
At his best, Mishima remained equally alert to the sublimity, the cruelty and 
the silliness made possible by excessive devotion. "Acts of Worship" well 
documents the visions and the delusions projected by Mishima's devotional art. 
</P>
