Language: <F P=105> Arabic </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Report from Asyut by 'Isam 'Abd-al-Jawad] </F>
  [Text] Terrorist groups have infiltrated the Asyut Security 
Directorate's information system. The evidence emerged in 
incidents last Sunday and Monday in which 14 people were killed 
and 20 wounded during the biggest terrorist operation in Asyut 
since the October 1981 incidents [in which Islamists tried to 
seize power following the assassination of al-Sadat]. 
  News circulating recently in Asyut confirms that the 
terrorist groups have infiltrated the information system that 
details the movements of security leaders within the 
governorate. The groups learned the times these leaders report 
for work despite constant changes to their routes and the color 
and model of the cars they use and some leaders using cars 
without license plates for camouflage. 
  The news was confirmed by officials, who explained that by 
obtaining the security information, terrorist groups "avenged" 
the death of their amir [leader] in Manfalut in just 90 minutes 
by assassinating Brigadier General Muhammad Tu'aymah and his 
guard. The security agencies have denied any link between the 
two incidents. The "Islamic Group" established the link in a 
statement that confirmed Brig. Gen. Tu'ayumah was assassinated 
in response to the killing of the Manfalut Islamic Group leader. 
  Recent incidents have revealed a serious development in 
terrorist operations in Asyut. Plastic incendiary hand grenades 
were used for the first time in addition to the incendiary, 
penetrating bullets [as published] the use and circulation of 
which is prohibited among citizens. 
  Security sources have told ROSE AL-YUSUF that the security 
apparatus has arrested 150 terrorists in the past few days. 
They are being interrogated for referral to the State Security 
Prosecution. 
  Elsewhere, the Interior Ministry has sent a group of 
high-ranking security leaders [to Asyut] to work out a new plan 
to terminate terrorist operations there and overcome the 
shortcomings affecting the information system of the Asyut 
Security Directorate. 

