Language: <F P=105> Mandarin </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpts] Jinan Military Region sponsored a naming 
ceremony in the Bayi Auditorium on the afternoon of 10 January 
to confer the honorary title of heroic fighter on Xu Honggang 
who has taken up the cudgels for a just cause and on (Gao 
Qingbo) who devoted himself to national defense and the honorary 
title of model on the first company under certain regiment, 
which has been outstanding in armed force construction. 
  Attending the naming ceremony were leading comrades from 
Jinan Military Region and the leading organs under the military 
region, including Zhang Taiheng, Song Qingwei, (Luan Guoping), 
Cai Renshan, (Chen Guoliang), (Han Naida), Hao Baoqing, (Zhao 
Bingtian), (Liu Shoufang), and Shan Jilin; Zheng Zhengming, 
director of the organization department under the General 
Political Department of the People's Liberation Army [PLA]; (Tan 
Changpu), member of the standing committee under the Communist 
Youth League [CYL] of China and director of the organization 
department under the national CYL; Zhang Ruifeng, vice governor 
of Shandong Province; (Zhang Huahong), vice governor of Henan 
Province; representatives from the provinces of Sichuan, Yunnan, 
and Hubei; and officers and soldiers from the PLA units 
stationed in Jinan--more than 1,600 persons in total. 
  (Han Naida), director of the political department under the 
military region, presided over the naming ceremony and (Luan 
Guoping), deputy commander of the military region, read the 
military region's award order. 
  During the ceremony Zhang Taiheng, commander of the military 
region; Song Qingwei, political commissar of the military 
region; and Zheng Zhengming, director of the organization 
department under the PLA General Political Department; presented 
honorary banners, medals, and certificates respectively to the 
first company under the certain regiment of the military region, 
to Comrade Xu Honggang, and to the father of Martyr (Gao 
Qingbo). [passage omitted] 
  During the ceremony Cai Renshan, deputy political commissar 
of the military region, delivered a speech in which he pointed 
out: The two heroic fighters Xu Honggang and (Gao Qingbo) are 
new models emerging among the PLA units under the new situation, 
who conform with the four requirements of cadres. The party 
committee under the military region calls on the broad masses of 
officers and soldiers across the military region to extensively 
carry out the campaign of learning from Xu Honggang, (Gao 
Qingbo), and the first company under the certain regiment; to 
further enhance the construction of grass-roots level units; to 
vigorously build the grass-roots level units into strong 
collectives that are qualified in political work, are proficient 
in military affairs, are fine in work style, are civilized in 
discipline, and are providing effective guarantee for reform and 
construction; and to train the broad masses of officers and 
soldiers into new successors conforming with the four 
requirements of cadres. 

