Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] The president, Flight Lieutenant Jerry John 
Rawlings, today received the envoys from Zimbabwe and Burkina 
Faso at the Castle Osu. 
  The Zimbabwean minister of defense, Mr. Woven Enock Mahachi, 
who is the leader of the military team currently touring the 
country, delivered a special message from President Robert 
Mugabe to President Rawlings. Mr. Mahachi and his colleagues 
are assessing infrastructure and logistic facilities available 
in the country on which Zimbabwean troops will rely during the 
peace keeping duties in Liberia. He said their troops are ready 
but funds have not yet been made available and hoped when 
everything is set, the Zimbabwean troops will be able to cope 
with the situation. 
  President Rawlings said though the Liberian situation is an 
economic drain, with assistance it is manageable. He promised 
that the country will make available any information that will 
help the smooth deployment of troops. The command structure of 
the new UN force is also yet to be resolved. Zimbabwe, 
Tanzania, and Uganda were selected by the United Nations to join 
ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire 
Monitoring Group] troops in peacekeeping duties in Liberia. 
  A three-man delegation from Burkina Faso made up of the 
minister of commerce, industry, and mines, Mr. Zephirin Diabre, 
and the chief of staff at the president's office, Mr. Gilbert 
Diendere, also delivered a message from President Blaise 
Compaore to President Rawlings. The message contained an 
invitation to President Rawlings to attend the commissioning of 
a hydroelectric project in Burkina Faso. 

