Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Veronika Romanenkova] </F>
  [Text] Moscow, Feb 1 TASS -- Reports claiming Russia has 
turned into ``grounds for dumping dangerous industrial waste 
from Western nations are unjustified,'' says a statement of the 
Russian Environment Ministry's press service circulated here 
today in response to a document of the Russian Greenpeace 
division ``Russia: Dumping Grounds for Western Waste.'' 
  The ministry admitted a tendency of dangerous waste imports 
but said it prepares measures to prevent the threat. 
  According to the Greenpeace report, there have been 96 
attempts to bring to Russia 34 million tones of waste within six 
years. Specialists believe these were mere intentions. 
  In the words of the ministry, the Russian procedure of 
industrial waste imports and exports ``prevents imports of large 
batches of dangerous waste to Russia.'' The Russian Ministry of 
Foreign Economic Relations issues licenses and the Russian state 
customs committee controls the waste imports. A license is 
issued on coordination with the environment ministry; the latter 
provide for a corresponding examination. 
  The procedure is obligatory for all, and its violation 
entails administrative and criminal responsibility. 
  According to the ministry, territorial environmental bodies 
have rejected the overwhelming majority of proposals of Western 
firms and their Russian mediators on the basis of expert 
conclusions. In 1992-1993 they coordinated licenses on imports 
of small batches of industrial waste, as a rule, for research 
purposes. 
  In order to prevent illegal attempts of dangerous waste 
imports, the ministry works in close contact with the 
law-enforcement and environment bodies of several states. 

