CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by S. Pautova, under rubric "City Life in Facts and </F>
Figures": "We Have Not Begun Hurting Less"] 
  [Text] Today we are continuing the series of articles 
based on data provided in the "Memorandum Concerning the Basic 
Results of the Economic and Social Development of the City of 
Novokuznetsk in 1993," which was prepared by T. B. Balakirev, 
chief of the Department of Forecasts For the Development of the 
City, of the Committee for the Economy. 
  It is necessary to begin by stating that the indicators 
pertaining to the health level for the city's population are 
unsatisfactory and have a tendency toward further worsening. 
Wherein does this manifest itself? 
  Last year the mortality rate in our city was 15.5 cases per 
1000 inhabitants. As compared with 1992, that indicator rose by 
26.6 percent. The average age of persons who died was 54 years 
among men and 66 years among women. In Zavodskoy Rayon those 
indicators are, respectively, 51 and 63 years. Our men die 15 
years earlier than the average life expectancy for the country 
as a whole, and women die 5 years earlier. 
  Among those who died, one-third were persons of working age. 
For a number of reasons, the disorders that take first place 
among the deaths are cardiovascular diseases; in second place, 
traumas and poisonings; and in third place, neoplasms (that is, 
cancer diseases). Among the second category of causes of deaths, 
murders and suicides constitute a considerable percentage (40 
percent of the people who died underwent an autopsy). 
  The indicator for the infant mortality rate rose last year, 
as compared with 1992, by 6 percent, and constituted 19.9 cases 
out of 1000 live births. But the birth rate indicator dropped to 
8.09 per 1000 women of childbearing age. The negative natural 
increase in the population increased to 14 percent. 
  An additional problem is the disability rate. In 1993 the 
VTEK [Medical Commission for Determination of Disability] 
certified 5364 persons (almost 300 more than in 1992), and 
recognized 5292 persons as being disabled; this is 11 percent 
more than the previous year. Out of every 10,000 persons, 33 
retire on disability for the first time. In Kuznetskiy Rayon 
that indicator is equal to 34.7. 
  Among the reasons why people retire on disability, diseases 
are in first place; in second place, disability since childhood; 
and in third place, occupational diseases and industrial 
injuries. One observes a tendency toward an increase in the 
degree of severity of the disability: there has been an 
increasing number of persons in Group I and II. 
  The number of recorded disorders, both primary and chronic, 
in connection with which the city dwellers sought medical 
assistance in 1993 remained at practically the same level. 
However, the indicator of the overall disease rate increased, 
and constitutes 772.5 cases out of 1000 persons in the 
population (as compared with 1992, the increase constitutes 10.5 
percent). Consequently, many persons with chronic disorders do 
not seek assistance. 
  The rate of diseases and disorders among children increased. 
  As for the structure of the disorder rate among adults, one 
continues to note an increase in disorders of the cardiovascular 
system, traumas, diseases of the osteomuscular system, and the 
respiratory organs. Pathology of the respiratory organs is in 
first place percentage-wise. 
  It must be noted that, in addition to everything else, the 
city dwellers sought assistance at cooperatives and from 
physicians in private practice. This information was not taken 
into consideration during the analysis. 
  As for the rate of disorders among workers at industrial 
enterprises, one noted an increase in it: by 5.2 percent in the 
number of cases, and by 8.19 in the number of days. The highest 
level of the disorder rate was noted in the coal industry. In 
general, however, workers in the city's enterprises most 
frequently suffered from colds, traumas, and diseases of the 
osteomuscular system. 
  The imagination is staggered by the number of visits to 
clinics: 6.5 million. On average, each city dweller has 10.5 
visits a year (in 1992, there were 10.39). 
  More than 144,000 residents of the city and the oblast 
received inpatient treatment at hospitals in the city of 
Novokuznetsk (which is almost 6000 more than in 1992); and 
48,134 surgical interventions were carried out. 
  The Medical First-Aid and Emergency Station operated under 
more strained conditions than in 1992, responding to 192,794 
calls, or 18,500 more than in 1992. The structure of the calls 
made there continues to be the same: 73 percent were calls 
involving diseases; 11 percent of the calls dealt with 
accidents; and 1.3 percent of the calls dealt with childbirth. 

