BFN 

<F P=106> [By Flor Wang] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, April 22 (CNA) -- Drops in marriage and 
birth rates have prompted the government to draft a package of 
measures aimed at encouraging more women to marry and have more 
children. 
  The measures, which will be made public soon by the 
cabinet-level Council for Economic Planning and Development 
(CEPD), represent the first major population policy adjustment 
by the government since 1969, when it announced its population 
policy. 
  According to a survey recently conducted by the CEPD, the 
marriage rate of females aged over 15 years had dropped to 60.9 
percent in 1992 -- down from 1983's 61.8 percent. The rate is 
expected to fall below 60 percent in a few years. 
  More astounding has been the big fall in the marriage rate 
among women between the ages of 25 and 29, which slid from 77.3 
percent in 1983 to 63.9 percent in 1992. The figure for women 
aged from 20 to 24 also dropped from 37.2 percent to 23.8 
percent during the same ten-year period. 
  The survey also found that the declining marriage rate also 
caused a noticeable fall in the nation's birth rate. Each woman 
in Taiwan over the age of 15 is having an average of 1.71 
children, a decrease from 1983's rate of 2.15. 
  The CEPD has recommended increasing subsidies for married 
couples and easing the age restriction on applicants for public 
housing. Currently married couples with newborn babies would 
also receive more financial assistance from the government. 
  The government expects that if such measures are 
implemented, 
the average number of babies born per woman will climb to 1.85 
by 2011, with the nation's total population increasing to 24.19 
million and the density per square kilometer standing at 670, 
the CEPD reported. 

