BFN 

  [Text] Jeddah, April 17, SPA -- Secretary General of the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference (ICO) Dr. Hamid al-Ghabid 
has urged the United Nations Security Council to take effective 
steps to guarantee Serbian compliance with its resolutions on 
the protection of safe areas in the Republic of 
Bosnia-Herzegovina especially in the surrounded Moslem enclave 
of Gorazde. 
  In a statement issued here Saturday [16 April], the ICO said 
the barbaric attack on Gorazde, the murder of personnel of 
United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), hampering United 
Nations humanitarian missions, seizing heavy weapons and the 
near massacre of thousands of Moslems living in areas protected 
by the United Nations should provide enough proof of the Serbs' 
complete defiance of the United Nations and the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization (NATO). 
  Al-Ghabid pointed out that these horrible acts not only pose 
a serious threat to the international community, but represent a 
permanent disgrace to the entire civilised world. 
  He said the view that NATO should remain neutral represents 
the ultimate appeasement of Serbian aggressors and reflects 
their scorn of relevant powerful organizations. 
  He called on the Security Council to issue a mandate for 
immediate action including air strikes by NATO against Serb 
aggressors to prevent the fall of Gorazde and the spread of the 
conflict to other areas like Zeppa and Srebrenica. 
  He said the Security Council should also reinstate the 
Bosnian republic's right to self-defence. 
  He warned that a massacre of Moslems in a United Nations 
protected area would have grave consequences on the whole region 
and seriously damage the authority of the United Nations. 

