BFN 

  [Text] The federal government will continue to support 
biotechnology and genetic engineering in North Rhine Westphalia. 
Consequently, official responsibility for these areas, 
previously fragmented, will be concentrated and made more 
efficient. In the future, genetic engineering facilities in 
North Rhine Westphalia will be approved solely by the North 
Rhine Westphalian Office for Environmental Protection in Essen. 
This office reports directly to the Federal Ministry for the 
Environment. 
  Matthiesen expressly called for a more objective discussion 
about the application of biotechnology and genetic engineering. 
The minister cited the applications in which the federal 
government considers there are great opportunities for 
biotechnology and genetic engineering. Research and application 
should be welcomed: 
  -- In areas where plant protection agents are exploited, 
hence reducing the pollution of waters by increasing [plant] 
resistance; 
  -- If vaccines can be produced to facilitate the control of 
epidemics and reduce the costs; 
  -- If the slaughter of animals, for example in connection 
with animal tests, can be greatly reduced, or replaced 
altogether; 
  -- If feed additives for useful animals are produced on a 
large scale, making it possible to increase the value of the 
feed by natural methods and hence reducing substantially the 
volume and nitrogen content of liquid manure; 
  -- If biological, "gentle chemistry" is carried out, 
enabling 
substantial energy savings to be made and thus reducing 
emissions and the production of wastes; 
  -- If genetic and biological engineering processes are used 
to identify environmental poisons (bioindicators), or to remove 
them in a controlled manner by specific degradation processes. 
  "I am against any application where animals are deformed to 
become yield machines by intervention in their genetic make-up. 
We should also reject applications where genetically-engineered 
growth and production promoters turn a dairy cow into a 
`turbocow'," declared Matthiesen. 

