Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Masato Yamano, President National Space </F>
Development Agency of Japan (NASDA) at Asia-Pacific ISY 
Conference, 19 November 1992] 
  [Text] 
<H5>  Preface </H5>
  Given their relatively short history, science and technology 
have been responsible for social and economic progress, and for 
advances in the standard of living for mankind. However, while 
we have been enjoying this progress, these advances have imposed 
burdens on the Earth, particularly in the degradation of the 
environment and in the depletion of energy and resources. 
  Two decades ago, the Club of Rome proposed, in ``the Limit 
to 
Growth,'' that there should be an overall zero growth to avoid 
the mankind's crisis anticipated in the middle of the 21st 
century and to prevent continued environmental degradation of 
the Earth due to industrial activities. Although its predictions 
about the Earth may be valid, we have been enjoying an affluent 
life. We have thus come to realize, given the aspiration of 
people toward a more affluent life and the orientation of 
developing nation toward modernization, that zero economic 
growth is not practical. 
  At the present, the world population stands at about 5.5 
billion. According to the United Nations' White Paper, this 
population will exceed 10 billion by the year 2050 and will 
continue even further. 
  Should human activities continue to expand, accompanying 
such 
population increase and economic growth, the support system 
provided by the Earth, such an supply of food, resources and 
restoration of nature, may be destroyed. It is thus important to 
control the increase of population, to reduce consumption, and 
to recycle resources. However, I think that we are approaching 
to the point where we cannot overcome the foreseen crisis by 
such passive measures alone. 
  Since the Earth is finite, we must look beyond the Earth to 
the infinity of space, the ``New Frontier,'' with every 
effective means for developing space in order to overcome such 
obstacles and problems and achieve a sustainable development for 
mankind. 
  In the past, Columbus, in his endeavor to locate ``the 
Golden 
Country'' (Japan), discovered a new continent by coincidence. 
Five hundred years later, we, with a firm perception of 
expanding a frontier for human activities, are at the dawn of 
``the Second Age of the Great Voyage.'' 
  The imminent challenge of the present space development in 
the ``Mission to Planet Earth,'' which is also the major topic 
of International Space Year (ISY) 1992. I think that in the 21st 
century we will enter the era of ``Mission from Planet Earth.'' 
When we are going to expand our living sphere beyond the 
confines of the Earth and to pursue new discoveries, it is 
inevitable and natural for space to become our theater. 
  Ever since the launch of Sputnik, space development 
worldwide 
has undergone major advances: varieties of satellite use for 
communication, broadcasting, and Earth observation; man on the 
Moon; planet explorations; manned space activities. With those 
tremendous advances, dreams of mankind have been realized one 
after another. Based on our accomplishment in space hitherto, 
the concept to expand the human frontiers into space might never 
be ``castle in the air.'' 
  In order to explore a new frontier in space for mankind, the 
global scale cooperation is essential. Under reconciliation 
between East and West, we will need to organize a new 
comprehensive mechanism in the 21st century in order to achieve 
our common targets of mankind. We will also need to establish a 
more harmonious system of rule and law. What is most essential, 
however, is to achieve the understanding of people, to raise 
national will, and to establish an international consensus. 
Therefore, it is to say that the key is the resolution of 
mankind to what extent he is willing to make the crucial effort. 
  Hereafter, I will focus on what are technical challenges and 
to what extent they are feasible in order to expand the new 
frontier for human activities. I will not touch upon the topics 
of a new, comprehensive mechanism, or ideas for a system of rule 
and law. 
  Speaking about the future space activities in the 21st 
century, the content and substance differ depending on the time 
horizon. I will define the year 2030, when the current space 
activities will be terminated, as the time horizon that I am 
speaking about. 
<H5>  Man in ``Near Space'' </H5>
  If we expected the frontier of human activities in the 
middle 
of the 21st century, the theater will be limited, at most, to 
our solar system. Furthermore, I don't think that Mercury or 
Venus will become the frontier for mankind by the middle of the 
21st century because their temperatures exceed 400ÎC. It 
would also be impossible to include the planets beyond Jupiter 
in this frontier because it takes more than a thousand days to 
reach from the Earth. Meanwhile, Mars is somewhat under the 
similar environment to that of the Earth--a gravity of 0.38G, 
surface temperature from -140ÎC to 20ÎC, a thin layer of 
atmosphere--and it only takes about 240 days to reach. 
Therefore, Mars can be considered as one frontier for mankind in 
the middle of the 21st century. 
  In the Middle of the 21st century, it is conceivable that 
the 
artificial celestial bodies near the Earth--Space Station, 
spaceport--the Moon and Mars would be the frontier, the area in 
which mankind would be conducting their activities. I will call 
the frontier, encompassing these bodies, ``Near Space.'' 
<H5>  Technological Challenge and Response </H5>
  What technological challenge must be met for mankind to 
advance into ``Near Space?'' What responses are needed to 
overcome such technological challenges? 
<H5>  1. Environment for life in space </H5>

  In ``Near Space,'' the gravity, radiation and thermal 
environments are remarkably different from those on the Earth. 
  Men have stayed in space aboard Mir station for up to one 
year. We have learned that man can return to daily life with 
rehabilitation after staying in space for several days. 
However, such experience does not enable us to fully understand 
the impact that long stays in space will have upon the human 
body. We must, hereafter, demonstrate how long mankind can stay 
in space; assess long-term physical responses to low/micro 
gravity, establish the methods to maintain health in space. The 
method may include providing artificial gravity, physical 
training and rehabilitation after returning to the Earth. If 
these challenges could be resolved through various experiments 
and tests on space stations, humans can stay about one year 
under microgravity on an artificial celestial body, and several 
years under low gravity on the Moon (0.17G) and Mars (0.38G). 
  Theoretically, it's possible to make 1G gravity by rotating 
an artificial celestial body. However, this is economically 
infeasible because its structure and weight become too enormous. 
  As for the radiation environment, man can protect himself by 
the sufficient heavy blocking insulator of water, metals or 
other materials. Thus, the challenge is to develop methods of 
blocking radiation at minimum cost. 
  The thermal environment on an artificial celestial body can 
be easily controlled by the current technology which has been 
applied to most artificial satellites. Control would also be 
feasible if residential areas were constructed underground on 
the Moon and Mars. 
<H5>  2. Oxygen, Water and Food </H5>
  Oxygen, water and food are indispensable commodities for 
man's survival. There are two ways to provide these in ``Near 
Space'': transport from the ground or produce them in space. It 
is simple to transport them from the Earth. However, 
transportation cost becomes too much to support many people 
living in space for long period, it will be imperative to obtain 
materials as much as possible in ``Near Space'' and to recycle 
what is used. 
  Oxygen can be reproduced from exhaled carbon dioxide 
(CO[.sup]2[/]. On an artificial celestial body, oxygen could 
be obtained through the two processes: hydrogen reduction of 
CO[.sup]2[/] to H[.sub]2[/]0, and then electrolysis of 
H[.sup]2[/]0. This technology of oxygen plants has already 
been established on the ground. The future challenges are to 
improve efficiency through improving catalysts, to reduce size, 
and to develop easily maintained systems. 
  In addition, oxygen could be produced from the oxidized 
metals which constitute 42% of the soil of the surface on 
the 
Moon and by using carbon dioxide (CO[.sup]2[/]) which 
constitutes 95% of the atmosphere on Mars. Research and 
development of producing oxygen with similar compound on the 
ground has been initiated. This technology will almost certainly 
be of practical use in the middle of the 21st century. 
  Water can be reproduced by recycling waste hygiene water and 
urine. The technology to recycle water by means of film filter 
and distillation has been under development for Space Station 
``Freedom.'' An advanced system could be utilized by the middle 
21st century. Water can also be produced from lunar soil and 
from the atmosphere or permafrost of Mars. The production 
technology could be of practical use for supplying water in the 
middle of the 21st century. 
  Food is basically supplied by a comprehensive organic 
recycling system which produces and decomposes organic matter. A 
part of this recycling system, with plants only, has already 
been verified on the ground. The challenge is to improve this 
system for use in space. Advanced comprehensive organic 
recycling systems including animals are exceedingly difficult to 
control, so this system will not be realized by the middle of 
the 21st century. Thus astronauts could not enjoy beef, but 
might eat vegetables and artificial meats produced in ``Near 
Space.'' 
<H5>  3. Transportation </H5>
  For the transportation to the Moon or Mars, two-phase-method 
will be probably employed rather than the direct transporting 
method like Apollo program. In this two-phase-method, two 
different types of space vehicles will be developed and used: 
one from ground to the spaceport in low Earth orbit, and from 
spaceport to the Moon or Mars. The advantage of this method is 
that varieties of space transportation systems can be flexibly 
assembled at the spaceport. And thus it is not necessary to 
develop and launch a huge space transportation system from the 
Earth to low Earth orbit. 
  The existing largest launch vehicle has payload capability 
of 
100 ton into low Earth orbit. Development of larger scale launch 
vehicle for the first phase, whose payload capability is 200 to 
300 ton, may be considered economical in the long run because we 
can reduce the amount of launch. For the second phase of the 
transportation from Earth orbit to the Moon, Mars, 
mission-oriented systems will be assembled at the spaceport. 
  If the existing chemical propulsion is to be used, the 
propellant, in particular oxygen, will occupy most of the mass. 
The net mass transported will amount to only one sixth of the 
total mass for the Moon, and only one tenth for Mars. It will, 
therefore, become necessary to produce propellant from resources 
on the Moon and Mars. Higher performance systems such as nuclear 
power must also be sought. 
  The technological challenges for the future transport system 
are summarized in four thrusts: 
  --Developing a large, economical rocket with 200 to 300 ton 
capability to low Earth orbit. 
  --Establishing the technology to assemble large structures 
in 
Earth orbit. 
  --Producing propellant on the Moon and Mars. 
  --Pursuing Nuclear propellant system with safety 
consideration. 
  By the middle of the 21st century, I suppose most of these 
tasks will have been definitely achieved. 
<H5>  Robotics </H5>
  When man advances into ``Near Space,'' robots will play 
important roles. Since robots do not require the same safety and 
life support systems as much as man and they are economically 
advantageous, it is indeed natural to use robots as much as 
possible. Therefore, the extent of activities a man can do will 
depend upon how robots can be developed and used for human 
activities. 
  Robotics will probably have made remarkable progress by the 
middle of the 21st century. Robots will be able to receive 
verbal commands in the language we use in daily life. On 
receiving such commands, robots will be able to think of the 
procedure, to choose the tools and to implement the tasks. When 
a man on the Earth orders a robot on Mars, ``The module has 
something wrong, please repair it,'' the robot will do it. 
  The challenge in robotics is to develop advanced elements 
and 
components: electronics, precision machinery, information 
processing, control systems, and communication systems. Natural 
language comprehension, image recognition, understanding of the 
surrounding environment, selection of the solution and 
operations planning will also be the challenge for robotics. 
These elements and key technologies for robotics are now 
tremendously progressing and will be likely to make the greatest 
progress in the 21st century. 
  After realization of these technical challenges hitherto 
mentioned, mankind will be able to stay for limited periods in 
``Near Space'' by the middle of the 21st century. 
  Regarding man's permanent stay in ``Near Space,'' we need 
further efforts to study the long-term effects of gravity and 
radiation on the human body before we can determine whether 
mankind will be able to live in ``Near Space'' permanently. 
Therefore, I see that the permanent stay in ``Near Space'' will 
still be the big challenge for mankind even in the middle of the 
21st century. 
<H5>  Space Activities in the 21st Century </H5>
  Based on the precious observations, I would like to show you 
my concepts for space activities around the middle of the 21st 
century. 
<H5>  1. On Artificial Celestial Bodies </H5>

  Artificial celestial bodies, such as a spaceport, a space 
factory, solar power satellites, space experiment/observation 
laboratories, will be orbiting around the Earth. For regular 
maintenance of these bodies, service robots will be operating 
around them. 
  A spaceport will be a transfer station for the Moon and 
Mars. 
Propellants, supplies and foods will be brought to the spaceport 
from Earth to the Moon. There they will be loaded on a vehicle 
to be transported to the Moon, to Mars or to other artificial 
celestial bodies. The spacecraft is to dock at the spaceport and 
will be maintained and checked there. 
  In the space factory, materials and pharmaceuticals with the 
highest utility value will have to be produced based upon 
selection of various microgravity experiments. These factories 
will have to be maintained by as few people as possible, and so 
will be highly automated. 
  Energy required for manufacturing and living is to be 
transmitted either by microwave from the solar power satellites 
or from the solar power plants constructed at each space 
factory. Several experiments will be conducted in the space 
laboratory to investigate the long-term effects of low gravity 
upon animals and plants. 
  Short-term living in ``Near Space'' will become easier, and 
eventually tourists will visit for space sight-seeing. 
<H5>  2. On the Moon </H5>
  On the Moon there will be habitation areas, lunarports, 
mining sites, factories, experiment laboratories, and 
observatories. The lunarport, in addition to launching and 
landing facilities of vehicles, will have a mass driver using a 
catapult for cargo transport. 
  After the initial phase of resource exploration, industrial 
mining of resources will have started by this time. A few people 
will be regularly stationed at each mining site. If nuclear 
fusion power plant is operated on the Earth, then mining of 
helium 3 on the lunar surface is probably on a large scale. 
  Some lunar factories, which will be installed after the 
verification of the pilot plant stage, will be operating. A 
limited number of workers and a lot of robots will be working 
there. Products made on the Moon will include oxygen and water, 
structural materials such as bricks, glass, cement, steels, 
aluminum, and other metals. Comprehensive organic recycling 
systems plants will produce bread, vegetables and artificial 
meats. It may be possible by this time to raise chickens and 
fish. 
  There is no atmosphere on the Moon to cause flickering which 
degrades observations from the Earth. The Moon is thus very 
suitable for installation of optical and electrical observatory 
stations. 
  Tourists from the Earth may eventually have vacation on the 
Moon. 
<H5>  3. On Mars </H5>
  An outpost base will be established on Mars in the middle of 
the 21st century. As it takes 240 days to reach Mars, and the 
flight opportunity is once every two years, the whole itinerary 
of one person would take 3 to 5 years. Therefore the personnel 
at this outpost must include doctors, civil engineers, 
architects, experts on the heat environmental control and the 
life support system, and so forth. Over ten people comprising 
various experts and specialists as well as appropriate 
facilities will be required to support the outpost on Mars. 
  At the outpost on Mars, the first stage of the research will 
be completed, and pilot plants will be operating to conduct 
resource explorations, experimentally grow vegetables and breed 
animals, and produce oxygen and water. 
  It is widely recognized that Mars may have been inhabited by 
living creatures. By studying the cause of their extinction from 
Mars, we may get important information about global 
environmental changes. The research in this area will advance on 
Mars. 
<H5>  Conclusion </H5>
  The primary goal of the space activities in the 21st century 
might be the ``Mission from Planet Earth.'' The concept I 
presented to you is not only my perspectives of the future but 
also reflections on my aspiration and will. As the head of a 
space agency, I should drive forward to realizing the concept 
just mentioned to expand new frontiers into space. 
  As I mentioned earlier, the space development of the 21st 
century is going to be grand project which far exceeds the scale 
of current space activities. It cannot be done solely by one 
country, but rather should be collaborated by joint efforts of 
many countries. Space development in the 21st century is not for 
the national interests of one country alone; it is an 
undertaking for all mankind, and trasncending national borders. 
I hope that this Asia-Pacific ISY Conference in commemoration of 
the International Space Year will give us the momentum to 
further strengthen cooperation among countries worldwide. I wish 
we would go side-by-side and jointly challenge toward the future 
of expanding a frontier for human activities in space. 

