BFN 

<F P=106> [Final communique issued by the Schengen Executive Committee </F>
at its meeting in Bonn on 26 April] 
  [Text] The Executive Committee of the Schengen states, 
which met on 26 April 1994 under the chairmanship of Minister of 
State Bernd Schmidbauer, adopted the following final communique: 
  1. At its meeting in Bonn on 26 April 1994, the Executive 
Committee of the Schengen states discussed further measures to 
be taken in the gradual abolition of personal controls at 
internal borders. 
  2. The Executive Committee thereby reiterated its 14 
December 
1993 Paris declaration that all the legal and political 
conditions for the implementation of the Schengen Agreement were 
already in existence, and that an operational Schengen 
information system was the last remaining condition necessary 
for the final abolition of these borders. 
  3. For the purpose of abolishing personal controls at 
internal borders, the Executive Committee agreed on measures to 
be taken, especially the removal of traffic obstacles and 
lifting of traffic restrictions at border crossing points; a 
plan of such measures was adopted. The implementation of this 
plan is the responsibility of each individual Schengen state, 
and depends on the functioning of the Schengen information 
system. 
  4. The participating countries reiterated their firm desire 
to complete the work on the Schengen information system as 
quickly as possible by means of close and trustworthy 
cooperation. For this purpose, project management should be 
improved. A crisis staff has already been appointed, which has 
assumed overall technical responsibility until the Schengen 
information system becomes operational. 
  5. A further condition for the setting in motion of the 
Schengen information system is the successful conclusion of a 
series of tests, which are also meant to locate and remove the 
last remaining technical faults. In order to accelerate this 
process, the participating countries have decided to create a 
third data bank, in order to expand the test capacity. 
  6. The Executive Committee acknowledged the report on the 
Schengen information system produced by independent experts, and 
will in the short term present recommendations for improvements 
on the basis of this report. During final tests on the 
functioning of this system, it will be considered what type of 
service structure to introduce. 
  7. At the same time, the Executive Committee established 
that the operational readiness of the Schengen information 
system would be the starting signal for the abolition of 
personal controls at the internal borders as soon as the 
relevant personal data has been stored in the system. 
  8. The participating countries place themselves under an 
obligation to adapt their national information systems to the 
central information system in Strasbourg, so that a trouble-free 
transfer of data can occur. The consortium of firms led by SEMA 
has also promised its full support for the remaining phases of 
the project. 
  9. A further condition -- the naming by each participating 
country of the bodies authorized to call up data in accordance 
with Article 1001 of the Schengen Agreement -- has been 
fulfilled in the meantime. The Executive Committee will be able 
formally to acknowledge the list of these bodies in accordance 
with Article 101, Paragraph 4 of the agreement after final 
details have been clarified and after the Joint Provisional 
Control Committee has declared its approval. Access to this 
data by the consumers given in the list is the sole 
responsibility of the individual participating country, and will 
be reported to the Executive Committee immediately. 
  10. The Executive Committee acknowledged the opinions of the 
Joint Provisional Control Committee whereby the security 
conditions for loading and operating the Schengen information 
system in the original Schengen signatory countries France, 
Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, and in the 
subsequent member countries Spain and Portugal, are in existence. 
  11. The Executive Committee also acknowledged that work on 
Schengen regulations on the basis of the working program of the 
German chairmanship would be continued. The already adopted 
regulation concerning unified visa issuance procedures has been 
supplemented by an additional regulation concerning the issuance 
of visas at borders. 
  12. In addition, a protocol was signed whereby the 
provisions 
of the Schengen Agreement concerning the granting of political 
asylum will be replaced by the relevant provisions of the Dublin 
Agreement once the latter agreement has entered into effect. 
Thus, the Schengen participating countries displayed yet again 
their status as a pattern and example for the European Union. 
  13. The Executive Committee adopted an interim report on the 
state of talks on Austria's observer status. All participating 
countries support a rapid granting of observer status to Austria. 
  The Executive Committee called on the chairman to continue 
negotiations with Austria, so that the granting of observer 
status to that country can be decided at the next Executive 
Committee meeting. 
  14. The Executive Committee will hold its next meeting in 
Berlin on 27 June 1994. 

