BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by Yuan Hsiu-hsien (5913 4423 6343): "Guangdong </F>
Makes Experiment on Transfer of Stock Rights of Public 
Utilities"] 
  [Text] Guangzhou, 8 Apr (HSIN WAN PAO)--This reporter has 
learned from departments concerned that not long ago, the 
Guangzhou Urban Administration and Guangzhou Public Utility 
Administration's Tap Water Company signed letters of intent with 
the Guotai International Group to transfer, within set time, 
some of the stock rights of bridges, tunnels, and waterworks in 
Guangzhou and to jointly run, administer, and construct new 
bridges and waterworks. It was the first time in the country 
that some of the stock rights of public utilities had been 
transferred. 
  Transferring some of the stock rights of public utilities 
will help ease the financial pressure on the city government and 
will blaze a new trail in raising funds for public utility 
construction, thus transforming existing urban public utilities 
from "immovables" into "movables," and changing "lifeless money" 
into "living money." Moreover, it also can help transform urban 
public utilities into a form of commodity so as to lift some of 
the enterprises from the predicament of operating in the red 
over a long period of time. 
  It has been learned that the main content of the letters of 
intent was that the Guotai International Group would buy the 
Guangzhou People's Bridge, the Zhuhai Bridge, the Haiyin Bridge, 
the Guangzhou Main Bridge, the Zhu Jiang Tunnel, and 60 percent 
of the property ownership rights of the waterworks in Xicun, 
Shimen, and Xintang. 

