BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed article: "Chamber Agrees With Kosto's List of </F>
`Safe Countries'"] 
  [Excerpts] The Second Chamber has cautiously agreed with 
the implementation of a list of "safe countries" from which the 
Netherlands can, in principle, take in no more asylum-seekers. 
The list corresponds to a list of East European and African 
countries that Germany has been using since August of last year. 
[passage omitted] 
  However, according to Justice State Secretary Kosto, 
asylum-seekers from so-called safe countries will continue to be 
able to seek asylum in spite of the list. To do so, they must 
"immediately" come up with compelling arguments which show that 
they are at risk in their own country. If the Justice Ministry 
does not accept these arguments, then the asylum-seekers can 
lodge an appeal, but they will not be given any assistance 
during this period. "We do not expect asylum-seekers to make 
use of this possibility very often," Kosto said. [passage 
omitted] 
  According to the bill, roughly 5 percent of asylum-seekers 
originate from countries that the Justice Ministry considers 
"safe." [passage omitted] 
  Kosto says that "it is already so that virtually all 
asylum-seekers from `safe' countries are turned away. However, 
the 5 percent of refugees involved are causing an unwanted 
blockage of the capacity to accommodate asylum-seekers." He 
believes there is no ready answer to the question on the precise 
criteria for classifying a country as "safe." [passage omitted] 

