BFN 

  [Excerpt] It has been learned that the Defense Services 
attacked and captured strongholds belonging to the Loimaw opium 
smuggling groups in the Mongchut area of Mong Ton Township on 23 
and 24 June. Foreign military attaches in Yangon [Rangoon] were 
briefed on this and taken to the captured enemy camps on 26 June. 
  It has been learned that the trip was organized by Colonel 
Kyaw Win, deputy director of the Directorate of Defense Services 
Intelligence [DDSI] under the Ministry of Defense, and included 
military attaches from the foreign embassies in Yangon; Mr. 
Bruce Strubbs, a staff officer of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration--DEA--of the U.S. Embassy; Miss Takahashi, a 
narcotics official with the Japanese Embassy; foreign 
journalists in Yangon; and a group of reporters from Japan's NHK. 
  With the help of videos and maps, Lieutenant Colonel Kyaw 
Thein, general staff officer grade-1 in the DDSI, briefed the 
military attaches and other guests this morning at a guesthouse 
on the 502 Air Base. He explained the local situation and 
transportation in the Mongchut area of Mong Ton Township, 
Eastern Shan State; the importance of the Mongchut, Mong Htaw, 
and Mong Hta areas to Khun Sa's narcotics smuggling activities; 
the positions of the Loimaw opium smuggling groups; the entering 
and mopping up of these areas by our military columns; and the 
encounters between the Defense Services and the Loimaw opium 
smuggling groups. [passage omitted] 

