BFN 

<F P=106> [Statement issued by the Ministry of Defense; place and date </F>
not given] 
  [Text] With God's guidance and under His care and with the 
resolve, steadfastness, and heroism of the brave, the righteous 
heroes in the valiant Armed Forces units, the forces protecting 
unity, democracy, and constitutional legitimacy pursue the 
combat and combing missions they have been tasked to carry out 
on all axes and in all sectors. They are successfully carrying 
out these missions which are related to the field operations. 
These include their staunch confrontation of the sabotage 
operations to which the gangs of secession and rebellion have 
resorted as a result of their defeat and the collapse of their 
dens. These gangs are committing treacherous criminal actions 
against civilians, populated areas, and against strategic and 
civilian installations, including attacks on cities with 
missiles from the air, sea, and land targetting the forces 
protecting unity and constitutional legitimacy in al-'Alam, Ra's 
Imran, and Zinjibar city. They sustained further losses in 
weapons, equipment, and military hardware, and maliciously 
harmed citizens and their properties. 
  The air defenses of the forces of unity and constitutional 
legitimacy shot down one MiG-21 and a helicopter. 
  The valiant Armed Forces units on the other axes continue to 
pursue the remnants who flee toward Hadhramaut governorate from 
the Sbabwah axis and to comb the remaining pockets and dens on 
the Lahij-Aden axis. 
  The forces protecting unity, democracy, and constitutional 
legitimacy continue to carry out their duties with high morale 
and complete confidence in the proximity of the date when the 
people will triumph over the enemies of their free, united, 
dignified, and just life, the agents, criminals and evil 
traitors in the gang of apostasy and secession within the Yemeni 
Socialist Party command, God willing. 

