CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by reporter Chen Jianzhong (7115 1696 0022): </F>
"China's Labor Export on Contractual Basis Develops Rapidly"] 
  [Text] China's system to sign contracts to provide labor 
service for construction projects abroad and cooperate with 
foreign countries in the field of labor service is developed 
under the guidance of the reform and opening-up program after 
the Third Plenary Session of the 11th CPC Central Committee. 
Right now, it is of a fair-sized scale on the foreign labor 
market, and it has attained remarkable economic results. 
  Between 1979 and 1993, China signed 45,257 contracts with 
foreign countries to provide labor service for construction 
projects abroad. The total contract value reached US$32 billion 
and the total volume of business valued at US$19.6 billion. More 
than 740,000 laborers were sent out to foreign countries to help 
develop various projects. The total contract value, the total 
volume of business and the total number of laborers sent abroad 
during this period rose an average 46 percent, 36 percent and 16 
percent respectively each year. Especially in 1992 and 1993, 
China's contract business for labor service abroad progressed 
rapidly. 
  China's contract business for labor service abroad almost 
covers the whole world. Right now, it has extended to 169 
countries and regions. Asia is the world's largest market for 
contracted labor to foreign countries at present. It is also 
China's largest market for such labor service during the past 
several years. In 1993, China signed a total of 7,310 new labor 
service contracts with 35 Asian countries and regions with a 
total contract value of US$4.144 billion, and provided labor 
services valued at US$2.81 billion. Africa was one of the 
regions where China started its contract labor services abroad 
earliest. In 1993, China signed 607 new labor service contracts 
with 49 African nations with a total contract value of $702 
million and provided labor services valued at $618 million. The 
number of Chinese laborers and personnel in Africa reached 
19,400 at the end of 1993. Europe, especially Russia, is where 
China's contract labor service abroad had developed most rapidly 
in recent years. In 1993, China signed 918 new labor service 
contracts with 32 European nations with a total contract value 
of $715 million and provided labor services valued at $331 
million. The number of Chinese laborers and personnel in Europe 
reached 20,800 at the end of 1993. In 1993, China signed 373 new 
labor service contracts with 30 American nations with a total 
contract value of $160 million and provided labor services 
valued at $150 million. The number of Chinese laborers and 
personnel in Africa reached 9,036 at the end of 1993. 
  As of now, 312 enterprises in China have been authorized by 
the state to provide labor service abroad on a contractual 
basis. Some of them are of a comprehensive nature, while others 
are of a professional nature. In addition, there are more than 
70 scientific research institutes which carry out designing and 
consultation work. These enterprises and research institutes 
form an enterprise group which helps China compete with foreign 
contractors in all trades and dimensions on the world labor 
market. After their continuous developments, many enterprises 
such as the China Construction Engineering Corporation, the 
China Harbor Engineering Corporation, the China Metallurgical 
Corporation, the China Hydraulic Engineering Corporation and the 
China Road and Bridge Engineering Corporation have joined the 
ranks of the 250 largest contractors in the world. The total 
value of the overseas contracts signed by these five 
corporations reached $1.8 billion in 1992, accounting for 1.23 
percent of the total value of all 1992 international contracts 
signed in the world and 20.3 percent of the total overseas 
contract value of the contracting companies in developing 
countries. These five corporations had notably raised their 
capabilities in providing labor service abroad for large foreign 
construction projects. 
  There were 16 companies in 1991, 16 companies in 1992 and 20 
companies in 1993 in China, whose annual labor service contract 
value abroad exceeded $100 million. Meanwhile this amount is on 
the increase at all times. In 1993, the total contract value of 
these 20 companies reached $4.05 billion, accounting for 59.6 
percent of the contract value of all the labor service contracts 
signed in that year. In addition, some small new companies such 
as the "Beijing Construction Company", the "Aquatic Production 
Company", the "Oceangoing", the "Eastern", the "Black 
Engineering," and the "Good Fortune Labor Service" are catching 
up and overtaking the old-timers. They had done an excellent 
business in 1993. There were 15 small companies in 1992 and 25 
small companies in 1993, whose volume of business exceeded $50 
million each year. In 1993, the volume of business of these 25 
companies reached $3.398 billion, and they accomplished 74.4 
percent of their annual goal in business. In addition, China has 
also expanded its services for designing, planning and 
consultation on the world market, and increased its capability 
in contracting and cooperating with foreign countries for labor 
service abroad. According to incomplete statistics, enterprises 
including the "Chengda Chemical Engineering", the "Coal Mining 
Designing Company" and the "Aviation Planning Company" signed 
new designing contracts with foreign countries in 1993. Their 
total contracts valued at $47.87 million in 1993. 
  China's cooperation with foreign countries in the field of 
labor service not only helps strengthen its friendship with the 
people in other countries and develop economic and trading 
relations with other nations, but also creates new opportunities 
for employment, introduce into China the mechanism for 
competition, promotes foreign trade, earns more foreign exchange 
by exporting equipment and materials, and helps the development 
of other related trades such as the civil aviation, banking, 
insurance, transportation, communications, posts and 
telecommunications. Between the beginning of 1979 and the end of 
1992, China's contracts to provide labor service abroad had 
helped exporting equipment made in China and materials with a 
total value of $1.3 billion. In addition, the state had 
authorized, in the past two years, a total of 70 international 
labor service contracting companies to import some commercial 
products. The total value of the exported goods of these 
companies also exceeded $1.4 billion. These companies have 
attained gratifying results in taking the path of "promoting 
diversified operations while giving priority to their main line 
of business." 

