Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Shenyang, February 25 (XINHUA) -- The high-tech 
industrial sector will produce 5.6 billion yuan a year in 
northeast China's Liaoning Province after 1996, senior officials 
from the provincial committee of economy said here recently. 
  The officials said Liaoning would seek development of its 
high- tech industry in ten aspects, namely, industrial robots, 
bar code technology, laser devices, bioengineering medicines, 
superfine particle materials, superfine fibers, talcum 
activation products, permanent-magnet materials, diaphragm 
technology and multi-media contact screens. 
  Construction projects for nine of the above ten industries 
started last year and will form mass production capability by 
1996, the officials predicted. 
  Though a total of 860 million yuan is needed for Liaoning's 
high- tech concerns to become a real industry, the officials 
said, investment in the high-tech industry is very rewarding 
compared with that in heavy industry, which now dominates the 
economy of the province. 
  The officials also pointed out that developing the high-tech 
sector is helped by Liaoning's present advantage in technology 
and industry processing ability. 
  For example, they said, the province now has over 200 senior 
experts in industrial robots, and has developed an underwater 
robot, a welding robot and a robot with visual capabilities, 
thanks to an investment of 60 million yuan by the central 
government. 
  Experts estimate that China's auto industry will need more 
than 900 welding and assembling robots in one to two years. 
  The province now plans to produce some 300 welding robots a 
year by 1996, making it a 300-million-yuan business, the 
officials said. 

