CSO 

<F P=106> [By own correspondent Li Jianlin (2621 1696 2651): </F>
"Statistical Bureau, Ministry of Labor Publish Report on the 
Development of Labor Affairs During 1993"] 
  [Text] Today, the Statistical Bureau and the Ministry of 
Labor published a joint report on the development of labor 
affairs during 1993. The report indicates that new achievements 
have been accomplished in three aspects of the reform of labor 
affairs, namely in the further promotion of labor, in wages, and 
in social security, with key concern having been given to the 
nurturing and development of manpower markets. 
  In 1993, the nation's entire manpower resource amounted to 
820 million persons, and the number of employed was 605.9 
million, which was 11.58 million more than in the preceding 
year. The total number of persons requiring employment in all 
the urban areas of the nation was 11.47 million. Of these, 7.05 
million were placed throughout the year, leaving 4.2 million 
still unemployed, thus giving an unemployment rate of 2.6 
percent. 
  Reform of the labor system toward one in which labor 
contracts signed by all staff and workers would constitute the 
major component of labor relations was widely extended beyond 
the experiments of the past. By the end of 1993, a total of 5.5 
million staff and workers in state-owned and collective-owned 
enterprises throughout the nation had participated in the reform 
of the labor system, and 3.5 million of these had become staff 
and workers on the labor contract system, making up 31 percent 
of all enterprise staff and workers. 
  Salaries and wages were further raised. In 1993, total 
salaries and wages paid to staff and workers throughout the 
urban areas of the nation amounted to 477 billion yuan, which 
was 21.1 percent more than in the preceding year. Average 
staff-worker pay was 3,236 yuan, a 19.4 percent increase over 
the preceding year, but taking the commodity price inflation 
factor into account, the actual average salary-wage increase was 
2.8 percent. Among these, the average salary-wage of staff and 
workers in state-owned units was 3,441 yuan, an increase of 19.6 
percent. 
  The report reveals that in 1993 China made considerable 
progress in providing social security. During 1993, a total of 
46.1 billion yuan had been paid into the social security fund 
(not including the portion taken care of by the systems 
themselves) and 41.9 billion yuan had been paid out, as 28.8 
billion yuan were carried forward as balance (including 
purchases of special government bonds). In these figures, 44 
billion yuan were paid into the basic old-age insurance fund, 
which paid out 40.8 billion yuan, and 24.5 billion yuan were 
brought forward as balance. 
  By the end of 1993, 618 cities and counties had instituted 
reforms toward an old-age pension scheme, involving 25 million 
staff and workers in state-owned enterprises. 
  The scope to which society as a whole takes charge of 
retirement expenses was further extended. Up to the end of 1993, 
13 provinces, autonomous regions, and centrally controlled 
municipalities had already instituted a system of taking charge 
of retirement expenditure unifiedly at the provincial level. As 
to cities and counties taking charge unifiedly of retirement 
expenditure, apart from the state-owned enterprises which 
throughout the nation had already instituted the system of 
having cities and counties unifiedly taking charge of retirement 
expenditure, there have been 1,927 other cities and counties 
that had begun to have society take charge of retirement 
expenditure for collective-run enterprises in the urban areas, 
an increase of 168, compared with the preceding year. Throughout 
the country, 73.36 million staff and workers and 16.28 retired 
personnel of 590,000 enterprises of various kinds are 
participating in the system of having society unifiedly take 
charge of retirement expenditure. At the same time, a further 
3,100 enterprises have instituted subsidiary old-age insurance, 
involving 500,000 staff and workers; 6,000 enterprises have 
instituted old-age insurance in the nature of savings accounts, 
involving as many as 700,000 persons. Beyond that, as a 
convenience for the vast number of retired personnel, social 
encumbrances of enterprises have been lightened, and throughout 
the country there are already 1,000 cities and counties that 
have instituted systems of having banks or social security 
organs issue pensions. 
  Experiments have been speeded up with reforms toward a 
system 
of insurance against work-related accidents. Throughout the 
country, 500 cities and counties in 19 provinces, autonomous 
regions, and centrally controlled municipalities with a total 
population of 11 million are participating in the reform toward 
insurance against work-related accidents. Central management and 
regulated initiation of a fund for insurance against 
work-related accidents has initially been started, employing a 
system of differential and flexible rates, thereby promoting the 
safety of ongoing production in enterprises. 
  The reform toward a system of medical insurance has been 
further pursued. Throughout the country, 2.6 million staff and 
workers in 221 cities and counties are already participating in 
systems of having society unifiedly take care of medical 
expenditure for employees and workers, and 2.8 million retirees 
in 134 cities and counties are under a system of having their 
medical expenses taken care of unifiedly. 
  The scope and cover of unemployment insurance has been 
further expanded, and the system is being gradually perfected. 
Up to the end of 1993, 532,000 enterprises with a staff and 
workers establishment of 79.24 million are participating in 
unemployment insurance. In 1993, 1.63 billion yuan had been 
raised as unemployment insurance fund, and 930 million yuan have 
been paid out as unemployment relief, medical expenses during 
periods of unemployment, retraining fees, and as expenditure to 
help unemployed take up productive activities. The agencies in 
charge of labor affairs have provided unemployment relief all 
over the country to 1.03 million unemployed, and have thereby 
effectively contributed to social stability. 
  New progress has also been made in the reform toward a 
system 
of maternity insurance. Up to the end of 1993, 268 cities and 
counties -- 170 more than in the preceding year -- had 
instituted maternity insurance for their female employees and 
workers, involving 5.5 million staff and workers. This reform 
adjusts to a certain extent the burden of maternity insurance as 
between the enterprises and promotes employment of women. 
  Nationwide expenditure for insurance and welfare has been 
further increased. In 1993, total nationwide expenditure for 
insurance and welfare amounted to 165.82 billion yuan, an 
increase of 35.79 billion yuan -- or 27.5 percent -- over the 
preceding year. At the end of the year, the number of retirees 
throughout the nation was 27,497,000, and pensions amounted to 
90.17 billion yuan, which was 31.5 percent more than in the 
preceding year. (Figures for retirees and pensions do not 
include any proportion of civil administration departments.) 
  During 1993, the factory safety situation was grim, as there 
was a large increase in the number of accidents and in the 
number of injured and killed personnel during the year, which 
indeed must attract serious attention. Nationwide, work-related 
accidents caused the death of 19,798 enterprise staff and 
workers, an increase of 18.5 percent over the preceding year. Of 
these accidents, 616 had been serious accidents that caused the 
death of three or more persons in the same accident. In these 
accidents 3,819 persons have been killed, and the number of such 
accidents and the number of killed had increased 0.2 and 3.8 
percent, respectively, compared with the preceding year. During 
1993, road and traffic accidents nationwide kept occurring at a 
high rate without diminishing. The number of traffic accidents 
during the year had been 242,343, with 65,508 persons killed and 
142,251 persons injured, and with a direct economic loss of 1 
billion yuan. During 1993, there had been 38,094 conflagrations 
throughout the country, causing the death of 2,467 persons, 
which was 27.4 percent more than in the preceding year. They 
caused economic losses amounted to 1.12 billion yuan (not 
including forest fires), which was an increase of 62.3 percent 
over the preceding year. During 1993, 3,175 accidents of railway 
trains in motion had occurred nationwide, causing 46,781,000 
yuan of direct economic losses, 9.2 percent less than in the 
preceding year. During the year, 2,430 serious accidents had 
occurred on the railway trains themselves, killing 181 persons, 
an increase of 38 percent, and 16,353 serious accidents outside 
the railway tracks, killing 9,989 persons, an increase of 10 
percent over the preceding year. During 1993, 2,008 accidents 
occurred in shipping enterprises under the Ministry of 
Communications, on cargo boats belonging to local transport 
departments, on cargo boats of villages and townships, and on 
ferries, i.e., accidents of a kind more serious than the common 
shipping accidents, a decline of 18.4 percent compared to the 
preceding year. They killed 557 persons, which is about the same 
number as in the preceding year, and 37 of the boats or ships 
involved sank, which was a decline of 2.3 percent, compared to 
the preceding year, while economic losses were 147 million yuan, 
an increase of 13.2 percent over the preceding year. During 
1993, there had been nationwide three first-grade accidents and 
two second-grade accidents of China Airways, and there had been 
two first-grade air accidents and two second-grade air accidents 
in general aviation. 
  With the intensified reform of the labor system, the system 
of settling labor disputes has been gradually perfected. In 
1993, the labor dispute arbitration committees at all levels 
handled 12,658 labor disputes, an increase of 51.6 percent over 
the preceding year, and involving 34,794 employees and workers, 
an increase of 99.8 percent over the preceding year. 

