Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Thailand, Laos, and Burma yesterday signed a 
declaration of cooperation to eliminate narcotics. 
  The declaration of cooperation after two days of talks in 
Rangoon was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Amnuai Wirawan, 
representing Thailand, Prime Minister Office Minister Phao 
Bounnaphon of Laos, and Interior Minister Lieutenant General Mya 
Thinn of Burma. 
  Under the agreement, the three countries have expressed 
their 
determination to cooperate at regional, sub-regional, and global 
levels to slash the supply and demand of narcotics, to curb the 
spread of drug addiction, to suppress opium poppy cultivation 
and narcotics trafficking. 
  The three countries also reaffirmed their cooperation and 
commitment within the framework of sub-regional cooperation 
which encompasses Thailand, Laos, Burma, China, and the United 
Nations Development Program. They also agreed to meet every two 
years at ministerial level to review the progress of cooperation. 
  The three countries also called upon the international 
community to provide technical and financial help for their 
joint effort to deal with drug problem. 
  Mr. Amnuai said the joint cooperation would benefit not only 
the three signatory countries, but also the rest of the world. 
  Regarding the problem with trust between Thai and Burmese 
officials involved in drugs suppression, he said there was no 
problem of mistrust, and both sides were determined to solve the 
problem. 

