BFN 

  [Text] Kinshasa, 9 Apr (AFP) -- Zairean television reported 
today that the constitutional act to govern institutions in 
Zaire for the 15-month transitional period leading to the Third 
Republic was promulgated yesterday by the head of state, Marshal 
Mobutu Sese Seko. The act was formally adopted on 8 April 
during the closing ceremony of the extraordinary session of the 
High Council of the Republic-Transitional Parliament (HCR-PT). 
The act had been the subject of a heated debate between the 
presidential and opposition groups, concerning the method for 
appointing the prime minister during the transition period. 
  This act essentially defines the relationship between the 
government and the president of the Republic, and gives the 
HCR-PT the power to check on government actions. It fixes the 
duration of the transitional period at 15 months, during which a 
constitutional referendum and presidential and legislative 
elections are to be organized. According to the act, the powers 
of the government have been strengthened, whereby they receive 
effective control of the Central Bank and the security forces. 
The head of state, who remains supreme commander of the Army, 
has had his powers reduced, especially when it comes to 
appointing high-ranking civil servants. Such appointments 
henceforth are made "at the government's proposal." 
  The prime minister is presented by the political group to 
which the head of state does not belong, after consultations 
with the political class. The political class is given a 10-day 
grace period within which to make this appointment. After this 
period, the HCR-PT is expected to take the matter up and find 
the ways and means to resolve the issue. 

