Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by B. M. Kuzhevskiy, V. M. Petrov, I. P. </F>
Shestopalov; UDC 581.521] 
  [Abstract] Sources of radiation in interplanetary space are 
essentially three: galactic cosmic rays, solar-flare cosmic 
rays, and recurrent fluxes of low-energy particles from the Sun. 
The most dangerous of the three are solar-flare cosmic rays, on 
which there exists the smallest volume of data. Forecast methods 
associated with a search for flare precursors in the optical, 
radio, and x-ray ranges are unreliable in predicting solar 
proton events. The work reported here is a continuation of 
earlier work by Shestopalov et al. in which the researchers 
demonstrated that proton flares arise in the course of processes 
that encompass not only various layers of the solar surface, but 
also interplanetary space. Moving a step farther, the 
researchers here show that the preflare period involves not only 
changes on the Sun and in interplanetary space, but also a 
disturbance of the Earth's magnetosphere and magnetic field and 
a generation of particles in near-Earth space. Active regions 
are observed on the Sun during the period, as are coronal 
formations and their ejection into interplanetary space. Large 
proton- and electron-filled ordered magnetic structures appear 
in interplanetary space, and the flux of galactic cosmic rays 
diminishes. On Earth, magnetic activity increases, causing in 
turn an increase in the amplitudes of magnetic storms in those 
areas. In addition, magnetospheric protons with energies of 40 
MeV or greater are recorded in interplanetary space. Figures 5, 
references 15: 13 Russian, 2 Western. 

