Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by A.G. Bratukhin, academician, International </F>
Engineering Academy, B.Ye. Karasev, doctor of technical sciences 
and academician, International Information Academy, A.V. 
Logunov, corresponding member, International Engineering 
Academy, and V.D. Matyushin, candidate of technical sciences, 
NIID [expansion not given]; boldface as published in source 
text; UDC 502.7] 
  [Text] Under the conditions of continuous intensification 
of production, the problem of environmental protection and 
rational use of natural resources is becoming increasingly 
socially and economically significant. Included among the 
matters classified under this problem are the following: 
pollution of the water and air by toxic industrial wastes, toxic 
chemicals, and radioactive materials; prevention of harmful 
consequences of the use of pesticides to fight pests and 
diseases in agriculture and forestry; soil erosion and 
recultivation; further development of the legal bases of 
environmental protection; and economic assessment of natural 
resources. 
  The development of production, scientific and engineering 
progress, and expansion of human industrial activity must not 
destroy the harmony that has been established in nature or 
destroy natural resources. There are no wastes in nature: All 
biological, chemical, and physical processes occur in a closed 
circle. 
  All industrial enterprises affect the environment to some 
degree or other. Research has shown that at least one third of 
all processible raw material is now transformed into finished 
products. Consequently, the remaining fraction of raw materials 
becomes wastes that are often harmful to the environment. In the 
past decade, the volume of industrial wastes released into the 
atmosphere in conjunction with the rapid increase in industrial 
development has increased sharply and continues to increase. 
Each year, industrial enterprises, thermal electric power 
plants, motor vehicles, blast furnaces, aircraft engines, and 
other machines release hundreds of millions of tons of carbon in 
the form of oxides, primarily carbon dioxide, into the 
atmosphere. 
  The carbon dioxide released by humans and the animal world 
is 
absorbed by plant life to provide a stable state of equilibrium 
in the atmosphere. Unfortunately, this equilibrium has now been 
upset, and the alarm of ecological catastrophe is sounding 
louder with each passing year. The continuing increase in the 
concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is an 
especially negative phenomenon. Carbon dioxide is known to be 
toxic in large quantities: It causes hypoxia and debilitated 
respiration and cardiac activity. An increase in carbon dioxide 
concentration not only has a direct effect on organisms but also 
facilitates an increase in absorption of the earth's thermal 
radiation by the atmosphere, which in turn results in climate 
warming throughout the entire planet. As is known, in the past 
100 years, the average temperature of the earth's surface 
increased by 0.5-0.6ë, which has in turn accelerated glacial 
thawing and increased the sea's level by 1.5-2 m. 
  Also released along with carbon dioxide during the 
combustion 
process is carbon monoxide, which has an even more toxic effect 
and which may result in debilitation of many vital functions, 
including illness of the central nervous system. 
  Metallurgy plants and thermal power plants release a large 
amount of sulfur dioxide. Fossil fuels also contain a great deal 
of sulfur. Each year, about 30 million tons of sulfurous gas are 
released in our country. When sulfur dioxide reacts with 
atmospheric moisture, sulfurous and sulfuric acids form. When 
nitrogen-containing coal and oil are burned, oxides are formed 
that combine with atmospheric moisture to yield nitrous and 
nitric acids. These acids may cause serious lung diseases. 
  Ecological and sanitary and hygiene estimates are formulated 
on the basis of data about emissions of pollutants into the 
atmosphere. 
  In nature, everything is interconnected. Toxic impurities 
that end up in the air are returned to the earth in the form of 
precipitation falling on pastures, meadows, fields, gardens, and 
vegetable gardens. Polluted precipitation also falls into water 
reservoirs. The acids contained in precipitation react with 
metals (aluminum, cadmium, mercury, lead, etc.) in the soil, and 
they infect the water and thus the fish. 
  Precipitation is not the only source of water pollution. 
Industrial, transport, and household wastes are dumped into 
water reservoirs in quantities such that many rivers and lakes 
can no longer be cleaned with existing resources. The natural 
purity of relatively shallow ground waters has been lost. 
Phosphates from wastes, the nitrates that are used everywhere as 
fertilizers, and other toxic materials have infiltrated them. 
The situation regarding irrigation water is no better. Its 
chemical composition largely dictates the quality of 
agricultural projects, in which the content of nitrates, 
phosphates, and metals has also risen. Countries with a high 
technological discipline permit the use of relatively small 
amounts of fertilizer. In countries with a lower technological 
discipline, the level is higher owing to an attempt to increase 
crop yields. As a rule, this results in a decline in product 
quality. 
  And so, the circle has closed: People harm the environment, 
the environment shortens their life. The child mortality rate in 
many countries has stopped decreasing, and in several countries 
it has even begun to increase. Studies conducted by the World 
Health Organization gave the sad results: An elevated lead 
content was discovered in the blood of 30 percent of neonates. 
Where is the way out? 
  Reason suggests that, as soon as possible, further 
destruction of nature must be halted, it must be restored on a 
planetwide scale, and population control must be begun so as not 
to extend beyond the scope of the biosphere's objective 
capabilities. Understanding of the fact that people's lives 
truly depend on their effect on nature has not yet become 
widespread. 
  It must be acknowledged that more than a few measures to 
regulate man's relationship with nature have been developed. In 
the developed countries, where the economy is subject to market 
relationships, energy-saving technologies are being developed 
intensively. This is making it possible to burn less fuel and, 
consequently, reduce the release of carbon into the atmosphere. 
The manufacture of lead-free gasoline has begun, and exhaust 
gases have begun to contain far less toxic impurities. 
  Today, the search for ways of solving ecological problems is 
being conducted at the international, state, and sector levels. 
Many countries regularly exchange information about the current 
condition of the environment and are creating a common 
ecological data bank. 
  Unfortunately, our country has not yet become sufficiently 
actively engaged in this process. And the situation in our 
country cannot be called good. According to existing data, about 
30 million of our citizens are living in ecological disaster 
areas. Life itself is compelling us to consider the problems of 
restoring and protecting nature as priority problems. 
  Quality sewage treatment is not provided in 600 cities, more 
than two thirds of toxic sources do not meet the requirements 
specified in standards. Volumes of unutilizable toxic industrial 
wastes are increasing, and a large portion of them are 
transported to household waste dumps or else to disorganized 
storage sites, which eventually results in toxic materials 
ending up in underground waters and water reservoirs and in 
infection of the plant and animal world. 
  Unfortunately, the aviation industry, whose technical policy 
has long failed to recognize ecology as a priority directly, is 
a definite contributor to these negative consequences of 
economic activity. 
  Each year, about 290,000 tons of toxic materials in the form 
of gases released from stationary sources are formed throughout 
the sector as a whole. From them, dust- and gas-scrubbing units 
trap 136,500 tons of toxic materials (47.1 percent), and 153,700 
tonnes, i.e., about 0.25 percent of the total volume of wastes 
throughout the country, are released into the atmosphere. 
Considering the fact that the sector's enterprises are located 
in cities with an industrially developed potential, where tough 
standards are in effect, and also, as a rule, in densely 
populated complexes of apartment buildings, the negative effect 
of the sector's production on the environment is not always 
adequately reflected by the volumes of emissions of toxic 
materials. In the total mass of emissions, the greatest volume 
percentage of pollutants comes from boiler and other thermal 
power plants (36-40 percent), foundry work (15-18 percent), 
painting (14-15 percent), and engine ground tests (14-15 
percent). The sector's production is characterized by a long 
list of wastes. And although solid particles and hydrocarbons 
predominate in the composition of toxic materials generated 
(they account for 74.6 and 13 percent respectively), individual 
enterprises release up to 70 different toxic elements and 
compounds into the air medium. 
  Each year, about 3,800,000 tons of ash, slag, spend molding 
and core mixtures, sediments in cleaning equipment, and other 
wastes are generated at the sector's enterprises. Of that 
amount, 800,000 tons is toxic. Hundreds of thousands of tons of 
abrasive dust containing cobalt, niobium, molybdenum, tungsten, 
chromium, nickel, vanadium, and other metals that are needed for 
industry but are nevertheless harmful to the environment are 
released each year. 
  According to data from a 1992 inventory of sector 
enterprises 
throughout Moscow, the total volume of toxic wastes generated 
consists of the following: 33 percent are wastes of galvanic and 
other types of chemical treatment; 17 percent are petroleum 
products (oils, cutting fluids, and storm sewer slimes); 12 
percent are wastes containing highly toxic heavy metals (dusts, 
slags, slimes); 8 percent are spent liquid organic solvents, 
highly flammable liquids, and vat sediments left after 
regeneration of solvents; 5 percent are wastes from paint and 
varnish production; and 21 percent are other toxic wastes. 
  The problems of ecological improvement of the sector's 
production and creation of new resource-saving low-waste 
technologies and equipment have not yet become basic and 
binding. It should be noted, however, that the sector's 
institutes are definitely working in this direction. 
  The development and introduction into the sector of fluxless 
melting of magnesium alloys and mechanization of their casting 
by using vacuum furnaces with a gas shield have made it possible 
to significantly reduce protection of the air medium and reduce 
the toxicity of wastes (slags). Also noteworthy from the 
standpoint of protection of the air medium and reduction of the 
toxicity of production wastes (slags) is the development of a 
process and equipment for vacuum preparation (degassing) of 
aluminum alloys instead of the process of refining them in 
layers. The process has been introduced on a wide scale at 
aviation industry enterprises and in other sectors. 
  Work to replace graphite during the shaped casting of 
titanium alloys by artificial corundum by using titanium powder 
obtained from titanium wastes as a coating is now under way. 
This will reduce the use of toxic binders (synthetic resins). 
  From an ecology standpoint, work to create processes and 
equipment for progressive automated high-precision methods of 
casting metals and alloys with complete regeneration, recovery, 
and neutralization of the wastes generated and to introduce them 
at sector enterprises should become a priority in foundry work. 
  In the past few years, the following ecologically promising 
low-waste processes and equipment for heat-treating components 
have been introduced by sector enterprises: ion nitriding of 
components used in basic production; vacuum nitriding of screws 
and cylinders made of titanium alloys; and heat treating 
magnesium alloy castings in ecologically pure media (in a vacuum 
or sulfur hexafluoride gas). This has made it possible to cut 
emissions of toxic materials by a factor of 2-3. 
  In the area of machining, the NIID [expansion not given; 
Defectology Scientific Research Institute (?)] and sector 
enterprises have jointly developed and introduced the following 
low-waste processes and equipment: 
  -- a resource-saving process involving the use of domestic 
cutting fluids instead of imported ones in the operations of 
grinding the blanks of components made of difficult-to-machine 
materials that has simultaneously doubled/tripled the duration 
of cutting fluid use and permitted effective cleaning of oil 
residues from the water in spent cutting fluids. The cost 
savings has been in the vicinity of 850,000 rubles; 
  -- an ecologically pure process for applying reinforcing 
coatings on a cutting tool by the vacuum ion-plasma method that 
has made it possible to boost a tool's wear resistance by a 
factor of 5 or 6; 
  -- a process for diamond and artificial diamond grinding of 
blades that has made it possible to reduce dust by 40 percent; 
  -- a briquetting process based on the use of plastics 
(glass-filled polyamide) to automate and mechanize the 
manufacture of blades at a number of the subsector's enterprises 
instead of toxic and scarce materials (alloys of the Wood's 
type); 
  -- a process for finishing precision components of 
fuel-regulating equipment by using honing heads instead of 
finishing treatment with abrasive pastes that has reduced 
consumption of abrasives and, consequently, their release into 
the atmosphere by a factor of 3. 
  In the area of installing and testing on-board systems, the 
following have been developed: 
  -- ecologically pure processing for checking leaktightness 
based on aqueous solutions of surfactants with color indication 
instead of the oil-and-whiting method; 
  -- a stand to check the hydraulic characteristics of 
pneumatic-hydraulic system components by using demineralized 
water and a stand for comprehensive development of 
pneumatic-hydraulic systems by using distillate and neural gas 
(nitrogen) instead of highly toxic working fluids and expensive 
helium. 
  In the area of magnetic testing methods, work to introduce 
television-magnetic inspection of series-produced components was 
done in 1990-1992. This type of inspection may replace the x-ray 
and magnetic powder methods for simply shaped components made of 
magnetic materials and would make it possible to eliminate the 
use of x-radiation and single-use x-ray films from the 
inspection operation, as well as eliminate developer and 
fixative wastes. In the case of the television-magnetic method, 
there are no wastes, and the magnetic tape may be used multiple 
times. 
  Completion of the aforesaid projects will make it possible 
to 
reduce the release of toxic materials (finely dispersed dust, 
nitrogen oxides, ozone, etc.) into the atmosphere, eliminate 
contamination of the atmosphere and water reservoirs by highly 
flammable liquids and pollution of the atmosphere by the 
volatile components of paints and varnishes, improve the 
sanitary and hygiene conditions of labor, reduce pollution of 
water sources by petroleum products, etc. 
  Despite the definite work conducted by the sector with 
respect to ecological improvement of production and creation of 
new low-waste processes, it is, as is evident from the above 
data, still difficult to call this activity purposive and 
effective. 
  To a certain extent, significant ecological problems arise 
during aviation operations. The "greenhouse" gases 
CO[.sup]2[/], water vapor, and NO[.sub]x[/] nitric oxides 
form as kerosene burns in an aircraft engine. Efforts are 
currently under way to improve combustion chambers to reduce 
nitrogen oxide wastes. 
  The only way of significantly reducing or completely 
eliminating these wastes, however, is to use cryogenic fuel such 
as liquefied natural gas or liquid hydrogen. The development of 
cryogenic fuel-based aviation will make it possible to eliminate 
aviation's dependence on diminishing petroleum reserves. 
  Development and assimilation of the following 
processes/equipment are planned as priority directions of 
ecological improvement over the next few years: 
  -- ecologically pure processes and equipment to wash 
components and subassemblies with aqueous solutions of 
commercial detergents instead of gasoline, kerosene, and other 
health-damaging materials that will simultaneously make it 
possible to economize fuel and raw material resources; 
  -- a process and equipment for applying powder polymer 
coatings onto gas turbine engine components in an electrostatic 
field that will make it possible to eliminate paint solvent 
vapors and aerosols in the atmosphere; 
  -- systems to evacuate and recover the chloride gas medium 
used when producing diffusion coatings on gas turbine engine 
components by the circulation method from the gaseous phase that 
will result in an ecologically pure technological process; 
  -- a process and equipment for creating ecologically pure 
technological media for high-temperature soldering of refractory 
alloys to reduce the formation of fluoride compounds by a factor 
of 6-8; 
  -- a process and automated chambers for 
microcomputer-controlled high-energy plasma-torch spraying of 
coatings to reduce the labor required for the soldering process 
by 25 percent on average. 
  These efforts will make it possible to accomplish the 
following: reduce emissions of toxic materials (finely dispersed 
dust, nitrogen oxides, ozone, etc.) into the atmosphere; 
eliminate pollution of the atmosphere and water reservoirs; 
improve the sanitary and hygiene conditions of labor; eliminate 
pollution of the atmosphere by paint material components; and 
reduce pollution of water sources by petroleum products. 
  The development of science-intensive processes and equipment 
and their introduction into industry are still far from 
adequate. One of the main distinguishing features of 
science-intensive technologies and production is the fact that 
they require little raw material and energy (i.e., they are more 
resource-saving); therefore, the wastes generated when they are 
used are not great. Water consumption in these processes is also 
much lower than in conventional industrial processes, which 
ultimately reduces the amount of contaminated sewage. 
  Membrane, ultrasound, laser, plasma, high-speed machining, 
and progressive casting are among those resource-saving 
low-waste and science-intensive processes that are especially 
significant for the sector's production on an ecological plane. 
  The sector's lack of a systems approach to solving these 
problems is another very important reason why the work that is 
being done with respect to ecological improvement of industry 
and creation of new types of resource-saving low-waste processes 
has not been effective enough. 
  According to the standard international classification 
system, the aviation sector is among the 10 most 
science-intensive sectors. It is understood that the task of 
switching the industry over to science-intensive low-waste 
processes in the present period under the conditions of the 
systems of economic relationships that have developed in the 
sector, where the business agreement with enterprises has by and 
large become the main source of financing R&amp;D, is rather 
difficult. 
  One of the main priority tasks related to organizing a 
systems approach is that of developing a special integrated 
environmental protection program. The foundation of this program 
consists of measures geared toward ecological improvement of the 
sector's existing production and creation of new resource-saving 
low-waste processes with mandatory expert examination in all 
stages of development, introduction, and dissemination for the 
purpose of clarifying their ecological feasibility. 
  The technological measures planned by the sector should be 
based on priority directions, including those in the field of 
ecological improvement of the sector's production as determined 
first and foremost by the list of enterprises, types of 
production and processes, and materials with the biggest 
negative effect on the environment. 
  The technology section of the sector's integrated ecology 
program must contain a number of subprograms in different 
directions of environmental protection activity. Specifically, 
each subsector must have a separate program of operations to 
create a process and equipment for regenerating, recovering, and 
neutralizing production and consumption wastes. 
  Expert ecological examination must be given a great deal of 
attention as a tool that makes it possible to make a 
scientifically well founded decision regarding the need to 
develop new technologies, as well as the need to replace and 
further develop ecologically imperfect technological processes, 
equipment, and materials that are in use. 
  In addition, it is necessary to have a system that makes it 
possible to conduct expert evaluations and prevent possible 
negative ecological and economic consequences of the effect of 
the sector's production on the environment. What is needed most 
on this plane is coordination of the efforts of sector 
institutes in accordance with their specialization as a part of 
the methodological, standards and related reference information, 
and technical-organizational support of such an expert 
evaluation, which should be mandatory for all associations and 
enterprises. The expert evaluation should be based on a 
comprehensive study of the effect on the environment in several 
directions, i.e., the effect on the air in the work zone's 
atmosphere, water consumption, generation of solid waste, etc. 
  The sector's institutes now have the materials required to 
conduct expert evaluations. For example, they now have the 
following: normative-reference material related to determining 
indicators for an ecological-economic evaluation of the sector's 
manufacturing facilities from the standpoint of contamination of 
all industrial sewage; normative-reference material related to 
the basic manufacturing processes and allocation of water with 
consideration for its quality; a method of calculating the 
quantitative characteristics of emissions of toxic materials 
into the atmosphere from the basic types of manufacturing 
equipment at the sector's enterprises; a 
normative-methodological list of indicators of emissions of 
materials that pollute the atmosphere and civil aviation motors 
for use in ecological evaluations and forecasts; and sector 
methodological guidelines regarding calculating toxic emissions 
form aircraft engines. The Russian Federation Ministry of Health 
and other industrial sectors also have a number of 
methodological materials. 
  A group of environmental protection specialists at the NIID 
are conducting a systematic check of completed scientific 
research work and newly developed and improved technological 
processes to analyze their effect on the environment and their 
conformity to the requirements of environmental protection 
legislation so as to prevent the introduction of technological 
processes that do not meet the requirements of environmental 
protection and rational use of natural resources. 
  The training of engineering personnel both in institutes and 
in enterprises for the purpose of providing them with the 
required body of modern ecological knowledge acquires great 
importance in this respect. 
  Only when specialists have in-depth knowledge of the 
interaction of nature and society, the consequences of 
industrial pollution of the environment, rational methods and 
ways of using nature, the requirements of environmental 
protection legislation, ways of protecting the environment 
against industrial emissions, ways of estimating the damage done 
to nature, and other matters will they be capable of actively 
introducing expert ecological examinations into the sector, 
increasing its quality, and consequently producing a product 
that is not ecologically harmful. 
  Purposive and effective work toward ecological improvement 
of 
the sector's production based on resource-saving and low-waste 
technology is impossible without significant improvement of 
organizational work in this direction. 
  In this regard, special attention must be paid to developing 
organizational methodological materials to support the use of 
recyclable material resources in the national economy. 
  The problem of increasing the effectiveness and rational use 
of recyclable material resources is one of the most important 
problems in the sector's production. Hundreds of thousands of 
tons of recyclable material resources pile up at the sector's 
enterprises each year. Table 1 presents the volumes of the 
generation, use, and destruction of recyclable material 
resources in the sector in 1991. It is evident from Table 1 that 
between 4 and 83 percent of recyclable material resources is 
destroyed depending on the type of resource. The main thrust of 
the sector's economic strategy is effective use of recyclable 
material resources in production, the main directions of which 
are presented in Table 2. 



  Table 1 

Type of RMR 

Amt. of RMR 
Formed 

Use of RMR 

Destruction of RMR 

                           At Sector      Transferred    Sold to      Amount     Percentage 
                           Enterprises    to Other       Procurers 
                                          Sectors 

Wood wastes,    143,747    67,312         34,490         15,242       29,338     20 
m[.sup]3[/] 

Polymer         5,529      1,954          2,247          51           1,280      23 
wastes, 
tonnes 

including: 

Polyethylene    338        188            14             1            105        31 

Polystyrene     3,917      1,711          2,160          30           114        3 

Mechanical      1,326      52             67             886          307        23 
rubber 
wastes, 
tonnes 

Textile         1,840      164            24             950          668        36 
wastes, 
tonnes 

Waste paper,    6,162      3              255            5,738        276        4 
tonnes 

Petroleum       80,185     8,446          4,227          22,280       52,069     - 
product 
wastes, 
tonnes 

Broken glass,   276        1              6              134          119        43 
tonnes 

Used            2,520      -              -              198          1,536      61 
fluorescent 
lamps, 
millions of 
units 

Ash and slag,   62,280     19,507         -              2,414        12,620     20 
tonnes 

Abrasive        2,261      87             365            1,290        1,042      46 
wastes, 
tonnes 

Shake-out       247,273    38,704         -              144          204,404    83 
sand, tonnes 

Refractory      11,411     1,658          1,663          5,370        3,367      30 
scrap, tonnes 


Note: RMR = recyclable material resources 


  Solving this problem requires a new systems approach to 
using 
all recyclable material resources. Recently, the recovery of raw 
material resources from wastes has become a matter of 
governmental importance in many developed countries. Unused 
recyclable material resources require significant expenditures 
for storage (or burial). In addition, burying them aggravates 
the ecological situation. 
  Reducing the volume of industrial wastes and making rational 
use of them reduces the size of dumps and the costs of 
maintaining them. About 2 million hectares of land in our 
country are currently used as dumps. The dumps become full in an 
average of 4-5 years, after which new dump sites must be found. 
The territory occupied by dumps can only be recovery after 10-20 
years. The area of land withdrawn from circulation is therefore 
constantly increasing. 
  Today, it is important that the public understand that 
the solution to economic and ecological problems is not 
purification equipment, on which enormous funds are spent, but 
rather no-waste technology and reprocessing of recyclable 
material resources. 
  When recyclable material resources are reprocessed, 
environmental pollution is reduced by 40-45 percent versus when 
primary resources are used, and capital expenditures are 4-5 
times lower than the costs of obtaining and processing 
comparable types of primary resources. Obtaining 1 ton steel 
from scrap metal, for example, requires 80 percent less energy 
than the entire cycle to produce steel from iron ore does. 
Reusing 100 million bottles makes it possible to save 30,000 
tons of sand, 10,000 tons of soda, 6,000 tons of oil, 18 million 
kwh of electric power, and 15 million m[.sup]3[/] of gas. 
Producing 1 tonne of lubricating oils based on spent product 
will save 6 tons of oil, and 1 ton of rag wool will yield about 
700 kg of recovered wool. Using waste paper when manufacturing 
paper makes it possible to reduce air pollution by 46 percent 
and water pollution by 25-45 percent. 
  When assessing the feasibility of investing large 
amounts of funds in the creation of some new facilities to 
produce different types of products, it is thus necessary to 
bear in mind that in most cases it is much more advantageous 
from both economic and ecological standpoints to spend funds to 
improve existing production processes through more in-depth 
processing of raw material. In such cases, the amount of 
additional product may be produced in much shorter time periods 
and at a lower cost. In addition, toxic emissions into the 
environment are significantly reduced. 
  It should be noted that the existing methods of estimating 
the use of production wastes and their demand only consider the 
savings from selling the additional product obtained. The scales 
of the true effect of introducing a recovery process are 
depressed because the reduction of economic damage due to 
environmental pollution is not considered. 
  The total savings from using recyclable material resources 
consists of the profit obtained from selling the product made of 
recyclable material resources, eliminating their removal and 
burial costs, reducing transport costs, freeing ground occupied 
by dumps and disposal sites, and reducing expenditures on 
environmental protection. Socio-economic criteria that give 
consideration to both the effect of producing a product and the 
social results of preventing the release of toxic materials into 
the environment must be used when estimating the savings 
resulting from using recyclable material resources. 
  Extraction and processing of materials for use in the very 
same production processes for the second and, in some cases, the 
third time is the main direction in making use of industrial 
wastes abroad. The membrane process and ion-exchange method have 
gained the greatest popularity. Specifically, they permit 
economically profitable processing of effluent after 
electrochemical treatment of solutions both with a low salt 
content (when units are washed) and in concentrated solutions 
(spent electrolytes). 
  For effluent with a low salt content, an ion-exchange filter 
is used. After that, the purified and desalinated (up to 90 
percent) water is returned to the unit for electrochemical 
treatment, and the concentrate is subjected to additional 
treatment either for regeneration and reuse or else for 
neutralization. Japanese specialists have developed ion-exchange 
filters for continuous purification of the washing waters of 
electrochemical processing units. The filter has ion-exchange 
cassettes or replaceable-type cartridges. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Table 2                                                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Type of RMR              |Types of Products Recomm-|Possible Yearly Producti-| 
|                         |ended for Production     |on Volume, millions of r-| 
|                         |                         |ubles                    | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Wood wastes:             |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Sawdust                  |Casings, base moldings,  |25                       | 
|                         |window sets, parquet, co-|                         | 
|                         |nstruction beams for hom-|                         | 
|                         |es, particle-board furni-|                         | 
|                         |ture                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Piece wastes             |Fillets, frames, shelves,|                         | 
|                         | finishing boards, etc.  |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Polymer wastes           |Primary polymers         |6                        | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Mechanical rubber wastes:|                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Raw material             |Gaskets, bushings, cuffs,|1                        | 
|                         | etc.                    |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Tires                    |Flooring, soft carpet, s-|                         | 
|                         |ound-insulating panels,  |                         | 
|                         |etc.                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Broken Glass             |Luminaires, glass blocks,|0.2                      | 
|                         | facing panels           |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Ash and slag             |Construction brick, bloc-|5                        | 
|                         |ks                       |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Shake-out sand           |Molding sand, constructi-|11                       | 
|                         |on brick, blocks, fertil-|                         | 
|                         |izer                     |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  Methods based on the membrane process are considered more 
promising for concentrated solutions. Different types of 
electrolyzers, i.e., with plate-type and three-dimensional 
porous electrodes, are used in the units created in Germany and 
Japan. Filter elements based on hollow fibers produced by the 
American firms Dupont, Westinghouse, and Dow Chemical have 
become popular. Sleeve-type membranes produced by the firm 
General Dynamics (the United States) made of the drain material 
Tricot with a packing density of 720 
m[.sup]2[/]/m[.sup]3[/] are in demand. 
  Wastes from the production of printed circuit boards are 
widely used abroad for electrochemical regeneration of 
cuprammonium solutions in electrolyzers in which the anode and 
cathode spaces are separated by an ion-exchange membrane. During 
the regeneration process, the spent solution circulates 
continuously in the anode chamber, where it is oxidized and 
returned to the etcher. Copper ions pass through the membrane 
into the cathode chamber, where they are deposited on the 
cathode in the form of a metal powder. The unit has a capacity 
of 3 kg of pure copper per hour (the URT-901 unit used in the 
sector has a capacity of 1 kg/h). The firms Finishing Service 
(Great Britain) and Gell-Muller (Germany) series-produce units 
for electrochemical regeneration combined with alkaline etching 
lines. 
  About 240 million old tires are discarded in the United 
States each year. As secondary materials, they are burned as 
fuel, used to manufacture rough home flooring and landing mats 
for aircraft, mixed with asphalt and used in laying sidewalks, 
used to manufacture drain pipes and enclosures, etc. In 
addition, the state of Pennsylvania is conducting a project to 
activate used rubber so as to chemically bind it with plastics 
for the purpose of transforming old rubber into a polymeric 
composite material suitable for manufacturing hoses, gaskets, 
rollers, and even new tires. The method entails grinding worn 
tires into powder and adding it to plastics to form a composite 
mixture. Calculations performed at the NIID indicate that more 
than 90 percent of wastes may be reprocessed and used in the 
interests of the national economy. 
  Ninety percent of wastes from the sawmilling and woodworking 
industry are used, as are 98 percent of polystyrene wastes. The 
savings of primary polystyrene thanks to the use of 1 tonne of 
secondary polystyrene averages 986 kg for the subsector. In the 
subsector, wastes from the sawmilling industry are used for 
manufacturing particle board and mail (postal) boxes, 
constructing temporary structures in the sector's own ancillary 
facilities, and selling to state farms and collective farms 
(sawdust) and the public (trim, slabs, and lumber that has 
already been used). Polystyrene wastes are used to produce 
components for basic production, industrial-engineering goods, 
cultural and general goods, and goods intended for sale in the 
economy. 
  Sector enterprises obtain some woodworking and polystyrene 
wastes from other enterprises in the region for processing and 
use in their own production. One plant, for example, has at its 
own initiative found a profitable method of reprocessing a large 
volume of sawmilling and woodworking wastes from enterprises of 
various sectors throughout the region. Yearly production of 
particle board averages 1,500 m[.sup]2[/] with an economic 
impact of 530,000 rubles yearly. Each year, the Vpered [Forward] 
Machine Building Plant in Moscow uses sawmilling and polystyrene 
wastes to manufacture hangers, motor vehicle and door handles, 
bread baskets, candlesticks, cutting boards, decorative 
spatulas, and small serving tables in quantities of 450,000 
units each year for an economic impact of 370,000 rubles. 
  The Gidromash [Hydraulic Machinery] Production Association 
(Nizhniy Novgorod) uses polystyrene wastes to produce household 
goods in quantities of 500,000 units each year with an economic 
impact of 420,000 rubles. It should be noted that enterprises in 
the subsector sell polystyrene wastes mainly to manufacturing 
organizations. A fairly insignificant amount of woodworking and 
sawmilling wastes are transported to dumps, buried, or destroyed. 
  The NIID has evaluated the ecological situation in the 
sector 
in relation to the recovery of slime wastes generated during the 
electrochemical treatment of gas turbine engine components and 
subassemblies. According to data obtained from sector 
enterprises, there is a total of 1,572 tons of slime each year. 
Of that amount, 251 tonnes are recovered, and the rest is 
transported to a dump. Titanium-containing slimes, which amount 
to 947 tons a year, are particularly valuable. It should be 
noted that the processing sectors of industry, for example, the 
paint-and-varnish and construction sectors, are not especially 
interested in this quantity of slime. The principles of no-waste 
technology require that these wastes be included in 
technological chains, however. The NIID has conducted an 
information search and identified 20 technologies in which 
recyclable material resources containing titanium slimes may be 
used. The MMPO imeni Chernyshev [expansion not given] and 
Nitrogen Industry Institute have, for example, developed a 
process for using titanium slimes to prepare Claus oxide 
catalyst to replace imported catalyst in sulfur production. The 
design of a shop to reprocess titanium slime to produce 
refractory alloys has been proposed at the Novomoskovsk Chemical 
Combine. 
  The use of worn-down mounted abrasive points is very 
important for our sector. A survey of enterprises revealed 2,545 
tonnes of such points generated during 1991. Enterprises in the 
sector use abrasive point wastes for various technological 
purposes. At the Salyut MMPO, for example, 24.5 percent of its 
120 tons of waste is sold to manufacturing organizations, and 
53.9 percent is recovered. Of the 125 tons of waste at the MMPO 
imeni Chernyshev, 84.3 percent is sold, 15.2 percent is 
recovered, and 0.5 percent is used in vibration tumblers. 
  Most worn-down mounted abrasive points are thus sold to 
manufacturing organizations, and only a small part are used for 
technological or production purposes. 
  Removal of an aluminized coating (during repair) and ceramic 
cores from single-crystal blades in a fluoride salt melt is a 
progressive direction. A significant amount of the slime 
generated after regeneration of the fluoride salts is used to 
produce construction materials. At the Rybinsk Motor Building 
Production Association, the economic impact from the 
introduction of this process has amounted to 462,000 rubles a 
year (in 1991 prices). 
  Several hundreds of tons of tungsten- and cobalt-containing 
wastes is generated each year at the subsector's enterprises 
during the process of pointing and using hard-alloy cutting 
tools. Eighty percent of the weight of all of the solid alloy 
obtained is in lump form, and 20 percent of the weight of the 
wastes from resharpened hard plates is in dust form. The 
enterprises and the NIID have jointly organized sections to 
collect the metal lumps and dust. The economic impact of the 
introduction of these sections has been about 180,000 rubles at 
each enterprise. 
  A technology for reprocessing wastes from grinding and 
pointing cutting tools made of high-speed steel is being 
developed at the institute. At the present time, between 8 and 
12 percent of the high-speed steel used ends up as grinding 
wastes, and up to 70 percent of the cutting portion of a cutting 
tool is ground away during resharpening. Enterprises transport 
these wastes to the dump, where iron and heavy metals (tungsten 
and molybdenum) oxidize and are subsequently leached out into 
the ground waters. Oxidation of chromium and vanadium result in 
the formation of toxic materials. The government pays gold for 
tungsten and molybdenum, and the enterprises send these metals 
into the environment. The newly developed technology makes it 
possible to recover steel powders isolated from the wastes by 
cyclones by remelting them (to produce cast components) and by 
the powder metallurgy method (to manufacture cutting tools). 
  Integrated solution of the problem of using recyclable 
material resources in the national economy will make it possible 
to significantly boost production efficiency and the degree of 
environmental protection. 
  The problem of protecting the environment and using natural 
resources rationally is thus extremely critical for Russia's 
current economy and demands the most in-depth attention and 
active participation on the part of the sector's scientific 
research institutes, associations, and enterprises. 


