Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Pedro Ross Leal, secretary general of the </F>
Cuban Workers Federation, by Open Dialogue host Soledad Cruz -- 
live in studio] 
  [Text] [Cruz] As we had announced, Pedro Ross is back with 
us. Many listeners have called in to ask questions that remained 
unanswered during the Open Agenda program. This whole week we 
have been following what I have called Parliament in the Work 
Place. This is a topic of much interest in the country because 
our future and life, and the country's future depend on this 
process. That is why we are all anxious to know how this process 
is going to be conducted and how we can participate. This is 
what I believe is most important. This is truly an exercise of 
participative democracy and is very important because the 
country is experiencing difficult times and strong measures must 
be adopted. In light of our past way of life, it is necessary 
that the people understand the process and contribute to it. 
  Welcome, Pedro Ross. I would also like to thank Pantoja [not 
further identified] for his help in getting the program 
organized. Pantoja has some 19 questions to ask, and I myself 
have five questions sent in by Open Dialogue listeners. However, 
I believe that the first thing we should do is ask you what you 
think has been the most important aspect of this first week of 
meetings. 
  [Ross] Good morning to the listeners of this very 
much-awaited Saturday program. Well Soledad, I believe that the 
seriousness with which the workers have broached the various 
issues up for discussion in the Parliaments in the Work Place 
are broaching these matters has been the most important aspect 
of this first week. This is not only important, but encouraging. 
We have seen a conscientious patriotic sense. I am describing it 
as conscientious because the people are aware of what is being 
discussed, what it entails, and of what they are proposing. They 
are not proposing measures to affect others. They are aware of 
the fact that the measures they are proposing entail some 
sacrifice for them. I have heard workers, people who do not earn 
much, say that we must analyze the issue of price increases; I 
have heard them say that the free public health and education 
systems should not be eliminated. More than 30 percent of the 
country's budget goes to cover these two services. For example, 
there are provinces like Pinar del Rio -- I got back last night 
from Pinar del Rio where Ricardo Alarcon and I attended a 
meeting with provincial leaders -- where 70 percent of the 
budget goes to health and education. 
  I have been amazed at how the people are participating. The 
people are preparing for these meetings. They are reading the 
editorials published by TRABAJADORES, they are listening to the 
opinions expressed by reporters and leaders. Ricardo Alarcon was 
interviewed on this station on this topic. The National Assembly 
of the People's Government [ANPP] was broadcast for everyone to 
understand all that is being done and what the goals are. These 
meetings are an extension of the debates that began at the ANPP; 
however, we are not rehashing what was said at the ANPP. Much 
creativity is observed at these Parliaments in the Work Place. 
  This process we have begun is basically aimed at giving the 
workers the opportunity to analyze the economic situation of 
their workplace, their enterprise, their establishment, their 
shop, or their subsidized unit -- if they work for a subsidized 
unit -- and for them to suggest how they can improve the work 
and how they can change the unprofitable status that most of the 
enterprises have. As everyone knows, only 31 percent of the 
country's enterprises are profitable. If we continue to 
experience this situation, the country will not be able to 
overcome its problems. No matter how many measures are adopted, 
no matter how much excess currency is taken off the street, no 
matter how many taxes are implemented, the situation will not 
change if we do not reverse the economic situation of our 
enterprises. We must contribute to lower budget expenditure. We 
cannot continue to spend more than we have. We have been 
spending more than we have. 
  [Cruz] I have always compared the phenomenon of our economy 
with a basket or a sack. It is full and you keep pulling things 
out. If you do not refill it, it will eventually be empty. This 
is basically what is happening with our economy. 
  [Ross] I compare it with a cow. If you milk the cow time 
after time, but never feed it or give it water, it will get sick 
and eventually die. 
  [Cruz] One of the questions we have received is: How long 
will the streamlining of the economy last? Will it be a month? 
Will it be a year? The rate at which the economic measures are 
adopted worries me. I have heard some people say that they are 
worried because they do not know how long this discussion 
process will last. 
  [Ross] The streamlining of the economy must be a constant 
process. It is a process. The economy must not only be 
streamlined, but also healthy. The economic situation of our 
production and service enterprises and the subsidized 
enterprises will depend on our having the necessary resources to 
fulfill the plans the country has. Therefore, this is something 
we must constantly strive for. This process opens a new cycle of 
economic education for our workers and administrators. We must 
learn that we will only achieve what we want by working 
efficiently. If we have one peso and invest that peso, we must 
find a way to double our investment. This is what will allow us 
to expand. To put it simply, we are seeking to make more than we 
invest. We must be consistent in this. 
  We believe that this process will be extended through late 
February, maybe early March. We must prepare well. We do not 
want this to be a marathon. The idea is not to meet a deadline, 
saying that we have talked to the workers and they agree with 
everything. We are not reaching agreements. We are making 
suggestions. We are analyzing problems, and the people are 
making recommendations. These recommendations are gathered and 
those that can be implemented immediately at a work center are 
implemented. The people want to know when the measures will be 
implemented. We must begin implementing the measures 
immediately, especially those measures aimed at increasing 
economic efficiency, stopping squandering. 
  [Pantoja] To do something like that we do not have to wait 
for an agreement to be reached. 
  [Ross] That is correct. And this is important. What worries 
the people the most are those measures adopted to streamline 
finances, to streamline our financial situation. However, we can 
streamline, but if we do not solve the economic efficiency 
problem, we will end up with this very same situation. This is 
the core of the matter. 
  [Cruz] The people on the street keep asking me one question. 
Social justice is nothing more than equal distribution of the 
money made. The question is: How are we going to make money with 
so many problems? What can be done to increase production? Can 
we produce more despite the problems we encounter with the 
inefficiency, mismanagement, and poor working methods we have? 
These problems have caused our production to decrease. Decreased 
production is also due to the collapse of the socialist bloc and 
the blockade we are experiencing. However, part of this problem 
is due to our inefficiency. 
  [Ross] That is the problem. The socialist bloc has 
collapsed. 
That is a fact and it created this problem. 
  The sugarmills are operating. We must work that sector with 
efficiency. Our country's economy depends on this. During the 
last session of the ANPP. Fidel encouraged us to continue 
producing sugar, to ensure that every single pound of sugar is 
produced. 
  [Pantoja] To produce with quality. 
  [Ross] To produce with quality. Yesterday, Comrade Carlos 
Lage was in Camaguey and talked about this. We depend on our 
sugar to get the oil we need to cover our electricity needs, to 
operate our factories, to operate the transportation we have. 
There is talk that this year, 200 camels, as the train-buses are 
called by the people, will be added to the system and these need 
fuel to operate. That fuel is bought with the money we get from 
our sugar. Sugar brings in most of our foreign exchange. We must 
produce sugar efficiently. Our ton of sugar must yield more. If 
producing a ton of sugar costs us 200 [currency not specified] 
and this is how much we sell it for, then we are getting 
nowhere. If producing it costs us 150 [currency not specified], 
then we have made 50 in profit. But if we produce it for 100 and 
sell it for 200, then we have 100 profit. You know that 100 is 
more than 50. That is what this is all about. The idea is to 
ensure that the available resources are properly utilized by the 
sugar industry and in the canefields and that we work 
efficiently. The most sugar possible must be extracted from 
every piece of sugarcane that reaches the sugar mill, and this 
must be done at the lowest possible cost. 
  The same happens at La Corona tobacco factory we visited the 
other day. It was the workers who told us what was happening. 
The workers told us that 750,000 cigars are not being produced 
because they cannot get the cover leaf, good-quality cover leaf. 
The cigars that are produced are for export purposes. However, 
one and one half the quality leaf needed for the cover was being 
used to produce the cigar. The leaf reached the factory; 
however, it was not used. Perhaps it was damaged in the process 
because it was not treated properly. 
  [Cruz] It was broken. 
  [Ross] It was broken. Perhaps the leaf selection process was 
not properly carried out. Perhaps the wrong type of leaf was 
sent to the section producing another brand of cigar. Once this 
occurs, the leaf must be sent back, and in the process, it is 
damaged or it is never returned to the right place. Many of 
these things happen. Therefore, it is not the same to produce 
5.5 million cigars, as the workers did in 1993, as it is to 
produce 6.250 million cigars. 
  This is what we are talking about. Whatever is up to us to 
produce more efficiently, we must attempt to do with more 
efficiency. That is the heart of the matter. 
  [Pantoja] There is something you mentioned a little while 
ago. Soledad talked about the need to produce. If there is no 
production, there is no welfare and there are no material goods. 
We may have the money, but if there is no production, there is 
no merchandise; and if there is no merchandise, the people 
cannot spend the money, and that money stays in the people's 
pocket. 
  [Cruz] We are at a standstill and this situation must be 
changed. 
  [Ross] I believe the statements Carlos Lage made yesterday 
are very important. They bring us hope; they represent a light 
for us. Lage said last night -- I saw him on television and 
later heard him on the radio -- that there are industries that 
are beginning to produce. Some of these industries began 
producing a few months ago. But he said that there is some 
reactivation. Some reactivation, not much, but that we are 
beginning to see some reactivation of our economy in the 
industrial sector. 
  [Pantoja] Tourism for example. Tourism is a source of 
income for Cuba. 
  [Ross] Tourism produces a profit. That profit will be higher 
to the extent we increase its efficiency, reduce its costs, and 
increase its quality as much as possible. That is what it is all 
about. For example, education is a budget sector where we 
allocate a myriad of resources. We have to try to do a quality 
job, and we have been working toward that goal. 
  This process will also analyze this issue: The quality of 
the 
education and the maximum use and improvement of educational 
mechanisms in order to not squander the budget. We have to try 
to eliminate from the budget those expenses which are at times 
superfluous, are made unnecessary, or are squandered. 
  [Cruz] There is a question regarding all the information I 
have heard on radio and television, and it is in connection with 
a query by a viewer and a listener: If the measures taken are 
anti-popular, what is the state going to do? 
  And I want to comment in this regard: I believe that one of 
the things we have to attain is to educate everyone on different 
principles. I find it frightful how we have developed a 
mentality of rights, yet speak very little of responsibilities. 
We do this with almost everything, even with our children and 
parents. Children have this and that right given to them by the 
constitution as a result of their condition as children, and the 
same is true of youths. However, nowhere does it say what the 
children's responsibilities are to their parents. This is one 
example. 
  The same thing happens with the state and Revolution. 
Everyone has a right to education, everyone has a right to 
health care, everyone has a right, and rights, and rights -- a 
right to retirement benefits, to work, to receive help, to 
everything. What about responsibilities? What are we going to do 
to fulfill them? 
  There are people concerned with anti-popular measures. We 
have to see what we define as anti-popular. When I speak with 
people on the streets from diverse sectors throughout the land, 
the people fiercely criticize egalitarism and that the people 
who do not work have the same rights or more than those who do. 
All this is criticized. There are many people from generations 
that experienced capitalism, for example this lady who wrote to 
us, Ines Pacheco Castillo. She stressed this in her letter in 
which she poured out all her opinions on this issue. She 
experienced capitalism. She said: "We have to understand certain 
things. We cannot continue shaping people with every right since 
birth and yet give them no sense of obligation." 
  In this sense, I believe that there are education and health 
issues which I think are an extremely important accomplishment 
and should be kept free. However, we must also give the 
citizens, as early in life as possible, a sense of 
responsibility. It is incredible how books, which could have 
been preserved, and windows, and school chairs have been broken. 
and how the schools are not cared for in the manner they should 
be. I do believe that there should be tax measures to cover when 
a book, a window, or social property is damaged. It is like the 
state is an open pipe that can provide all these things. 
  [Ross] I believe that until the collapse of the socialist 
bloc many thing were provided too generously and that generosity 
is precisely what provoked our actions. This is my opinion. On 
the other hand, now, having to confront the current problems of 
the economy, the situation of the economic crisis, all these 
problems, and even the capitalist crisis, the world economic 
crisis, this affects us more today because it is undisputable 
that we have to fend for ourselves; thus we feel these crises 
more. We do not have the support or international aid of 
yesterday. Logically, all these things make us do this, change 
our mind set, think differently about problems, because we are 
the ones who have to solve the economic problems. 
  [Cruz] What also happens is: We will have to seek 
ways....[changes thought] I want to know if this has been 
discussed as this viewer commented: If the measures are anti- 
popular, what is the state going to do? 
  [Ross] What are we all going to do. I do not believe that 
the 
measures need to be applauded. They entail an amount of 
sacrifice but are aimed precisely at protecting the people, at 
protecting our accomplishments. 
  I asked this question in Pinar del Rio and repeated it at La 
Corona: "Do we close the Hermanos Ameijeiras Clinical Surgical 
Hospital? If we do not solve this, we have to close the 
hospital. Do you want it to close?" 
  This was followed by everyone's spontaneous protest to the 
contrary. I asked: "Do we close half the schools in Cuba?" What 
is happening in the rest of the continent and the world? We have 
a special situation, have a blockade which makes our situation 
more difficult. 
  [Pantoja] Retirees are conducting a strike in Panama right 
now. 
  [Ross] There are crises in every country, and the solutions 
being implemented are truly anti-popular because in those 
countries the rich do not stop being rich. On the contrary, the 
people become poorer. Here we share the poverty among all of us. 
  [Cruz] Except the profiteers. 
  [Ross] Except the profiteers. Yet, there was a worker at the 
tobacco factory who told Comrade Alarcon: "You, who represent 
the state, are required to take drastic measures against the 
profiteers. We demand this. We are going to solve our problems 
but you have to solve that problem." 
  The people, the workers are already demanding this. A young 
tobacco worker said there: "Why, I who spend eight hours making 
tobacco, when I get to the corner just outside the factory, I 
meet other youths like me selling pullovers and shoes, 
bartering, and having drinks that are impossible to find 
anywhere -- exhibiting the result of the profiting, of the 
theft, of the black market. 
  [Cruz] This also has to do with something Ines Pacheco said 
in her letter. We have to analyze everything in depth because we 
need to take a package of measures. We have to attack the 
problem from many different angles. 
  [Ross] Yes. It has to be a package of measures. We are 
hearing proposals about diverse measures, but not all measures 
will be adopted. 
  [Cruz] Of course. 
  [Ross] From that pool of measures we will have, we will 
adopt 
the most viable and clever ones. Fidel said: "The most clever, 
the least likely to hurt our people." Everything we are doing we 
are doing to solve the dire problems our people confront today. 
  [Cruz] This comrade in her letter wrote about one of these 
problems. She said, regarding our commentary last Saturday [15 
January] about the lack of service workers in hospital and other 
places, that someone gets more money by simply selling his quota 
of rum, coffee, and cigarettes than by working 30 days, and he 
does this without having to work. If the profiteer was unable to 
profit, that person would be forced to get an available job. 
This includes people without a job as well as retirees who want 
to improve their income. 
  [Ross] Thinking such as this teaches us a lot about what 
needs to be done. 
  [Pantoja] Although profiteers are preparing for these 
measures about the money and are investing in properties, buying 
this and that. 
  [Ross] Properties also can be confiscated. Properties bought 
with ill-gotten money can be confiscated. 
  [Cruz] This is precisely one the questions we received: How 
can we tell money is properly or improperly obtained? Do you 
also get this question? 
  [Pantoja] No. There are other questions. 
  [Ross] Our people know. Everyone knows who is who. 
  [Cruz] That is right. We all know in our block who is who. 
We 
know who got a car and new clothes overnight and does not have a 
relative sending dollars. 
  [Pantoja] I have here a listener: Ruben Jeronimo Rodriguez, 
501 25th Street, between H and I in Vedado. He proposes, as part 
of this economic efficiency struggle, an analysis of the 
possibility of making work center managers a person nominated 
and elected by that work center's workers, something similar to 
what is being done in the Basic Cooperative Production Units 
[UBPC]. In the UBPC the state bodies make a proposal but if the 
members disagree they can nominate a UBPC worker, and he becomes 
the manager. In other words, a nomination is presented to the 
UBPC but if the workers disagree they select another person. 
  [Ross] This is the nomination of a member to the UBPC. 
  [Pantoja] Ruben Jeronimo Rodriguez proposes that this also 
be 
done in the work centers. 
  [Ross] In the work centers we already have managers. The 
workers also have the right to remove a manager who does not 
make the best use of resources. This is a right all Cuban 
workers have but we do not exercise it. 
  This is a matter in which our unions have been lacking, 
have not acted, have not exercised that right. Whether or not to 
elect them is not what provides the appropriate person. There is 
a selection process for state enterprise managers. A selection 
process takes place. Now if the person does not perform 
appropriately, the work center always, always [repeats] has the 
means to challenge this and demand that he be removed. It is 
necessary that where the absurdities exist, where there is 
profiteering and two-handed theft... [changes thought] In a 
small work center particularly, where theft keeps everyone on 
the verge of barely making it, everyone knows who the thieves 
are. The manager must be the first to know, and if he is not 
capable of figuring it out, then he does not deserve to be the 
manager. 
  [Cruz] You have made reference to this many times in the 
past 
few days. There is the question of what role the unions must 
play in this situation. What is happening? We have lived for 35 
years in a world where the Revolution is all of us and each of 
us. However, not everyone's functions have been clearly 
established during this process. Yet, the society has made 
progress through diverse means. Nowadays, we have a majority of 
good revolutionary people, but this crisis has also exposed the 
spiritual poverty of many. The difficulties of the people 
require a precise, appropriate balance. I believe it is time for 
the union.... [changes thought] As you mentioned, where there is 
a problem, the workers are fully entitled to express themselves. 
  [Pantoja] I have here a question by Jesus Fernandez Beltran, 
Consulado Street 111, Havana City. He asks: Does the upgrading 
of an enterprise's category increase the salary of the cadres, 
but not of the workers? Is there any official word on this? Can 
this be done now? 
  [Ross] There are certain entities where salary increases for 
workers and managers have been implemented; particularly, for 
workers. There was a major salary increase throughout the 
tourism sector. In joint enterprises, the personnel rosters have 
been adjusted. More is therefore required of the workers in 
terms of workload, as well as in level of professionalism. We 
have stated that as more is demanded of the worker, there must 
also be a salary response. The life of the nation does not stop 
when confronted with a situation such as this. While we are 
correcting things over here, we are also making progress on the 
other side, where we can. We must accelerate progress there 
where it is needed. 
  I do not know what specific case he is referring to. The 
goal 
now is to adjust, to free the economy and services from the 
heavy ballast of bloated personnel rosters, in the production 
sector as well as in administration. This cannot be done 
hastily. It must be studied. We must clearly explain the entire 
rationalization process. I answered a question on the Open 
Agenda program, that this must be accompanied by active union 
participaton. This will always be done with individuals in mind: 
those staying and those who must relocate, particularly those 
who must relocate because they are the ones who face the 
greatest conflict. 
  [Cruz] I am concerned by something that I know also worries 
many people, because I have discussed this with friends and 
listeners. I am very afraid that under this premise of 
protecting the workers and the people, we will continue 
promoting paternalism. This worries me a great deal because I 
already know many cunning people who are saying: "I can bypass 
that; no problem." This worries me because I believe that we 
have to at least once, in this society, ensure that good things 
are for those who really work and contribute to society. This is 
why I support helping people rather than subsidizing products 
and activities. This is why I believe people should be 
subsidized. If your income is very low and you have to do 
certain things, you can be given a special card. This is done in 
all countries of the world, even the capitalist countries. You 
pay less for transportation and so forth, but the other prices 
are high. There are many who think that because our people are 
so fine, the Revolution so good, that those who do not work, who 
do not make an effort to get a job, will continue to live off 
those who do. 
  [Ross] Soledad, it is going to be very difficult to ignore 
our humanitarian, paternalistic nature. What we can do is ensure 
social justice. In a TRABAJADORES editorial we said that our 
commitment is to the good worker, the worker who does his job, 
the worker who fulfills his social duties. We have no commitment 
to slackers. I therefore believe that what you say is fair. The 
good workers and the people do not believe that the Revolution 
will abandon anyone. But we must remember that the Revolution is 
the people, the people who work, the patriotic people. 
  [Cruz] I have here three questions that have to do with the 
state. Perhaps you have questions as well. 
  [Pantoja] Similar questions and different questions. 
  [Cruz] The people have been somewhat shocked by what they 
heard about the profitability of the enterprises, the budget, 
the budget deficit, the enterprises that contribute to the 
deficit. 
  [Pantoja] Sixty-one percent of the enterprises. 
  [Cruz] That is correct. The people are demanding that the 
state set an example, and I believe the people are right in 
making this demand. The people have asked the following 
question: Will the workers be told how much foreign exchange the 
enterprises use up? 
  [Ross] They must be told. 
  [Cruz] How does the government plan to save money? Has the 
government decided on the measures to be implemented or is it 
waiting for the people to express their opinion? 
  [Ross] No measures have been drafted. All possible measures 
are being studied. Comrade Fidel said quite rightly that no 
matter how good a technical measure may be, if it is not 
understood and supported by the workers, it cannot be 
implemented. On the other hand, the workers themselves are quite 
capable of coming up with ways to solve the problem, ways that 
not even the academicians can think of. 
  I will give you an example and you will see that it is the 
same as one of those suggestions you jotted down in your 
notepad. At the cigar factory, workers suggested that instead of 
giving the worker days off for illness, that ten days a year be 
set aside for sick leave. 
  [Pantoja] Jose Miguel Quinonez Matos of El Vedado has 
suggested 10 days a year. 
  [Ross] That is correct. The workers suggested 10 days. 
During 
the days of capitalism, the worker got nine days sick leave. The 
tobacco workers have suggested 12 days of sick leave a year. 
They also suggested that if a worker does not use up his sick 
leave, he be paid for those days at the end of the year. That is 
a suggestion. I am not saying that it must be implemented, but 
it does sound interesting. I do not think the academics had 
thought about that. 
  [Pantoja] This also gives you an idea of how the workers are 
searching for ways to save, and to put an end to paternalism. 
Many of the workers get medical certificates to cover up many of 
these things. The health congress discussed.... 
  [Ross, interrupts] Soledad was just talking about what La 
Corona workers had suggested. If a person gets sick and is going 
to be out for more than the 10 days, he can take sick leave. 
Then he will be covered by social security. It will be up to the 
social security people to investigate the worker's economic 
situation. His family must also be investigated to determine 
whether they need this help. There are families with only one 
income and there are also families with four, five, six incomes. 
There are people who do not have a single centavo in the bank, 
and there are people who have money in the bank and can cover 
part of their out-patient expenses. 
  [Cruz] Of course. 
  [Ross] That is what the workers suggested. They suggested 
that a sick-leave system be implemented. They suggested even 
more sick leave days than those given in the past. They 
suggested 12 days of sick leave a year. The citizen who wrote in 
suggested.... 
  [Pantoja, interrupts] He suggested 10 days? 
  [Ross] He suggested 10 days. Nothing specific has been 
decided on. However, there are some measures that can be 
implemented at the work centers. These measures can contribute 
to improving production, and that is important. 
  [Cruz] And these measures can be implemented immediately. 
  [Ross] Yes, they can be implemented immediately. There are 
measures to correct the problems we have at the work centers. 
There are measures to better use what little resources we have. 
If there was ever a time when we had to put our resources to 
best use, it is now when we do not have that much. We cannot 
squander. 
  [Cruz] Excuse me, I wish to say something to our listeners. 
Our telephone is ringing, but we are having problems when we 
answer it in the studio; so please call 79-1903. I repeat, the 
telephone line that is working properly is 79-1903. 
  [Pantoja] Pedro, from these TRABAJADORES editorials, the two 
most recent editorials, your statements at the various meetings, 
what I have heard some provincial union leaders say on the 
radio, I gather that the labor union's supervisory role must be 
expanded. The labor union must confront these problems at the 
work centers. The labor union must be given more power, or 
stress the power it has always had and have the union leaders 
use it. 
  [Ross] The labor union must use the power it has. The 
workers must use the power they have to help the country. 
  [Pantoja] Yes. 
  [Ross] To help the country and to help themselves, which is 
the same thing. The interests of the workers and our people are 
at stake. Socialism is at stake. The social progress we have 
made throughout the past 35 years are at stake. We must defend 
this and we must defend this with what we have. 
  [Cruz] I think this experience is very important. It is not 
the first time something like this is being done. For many 
years whenever an important congress was held, whenever a change 
to the Constitution was made it was always discussed with the 
rank and file, with the people. However, I do believe that the 
union and the workers should work hard to ensure that the idea 
of a parliament at the work place is not lost. The workers must 
always feel that they have the right to ask and demand 
explanations of what the administration is doing. This right 
must not be lost. We have returned to what I consider has been 
the backbone of the Cuban revolutionary process. We have 
returned to the days of direct participation of the workers in 
the decision making process. 
  [Ross] The workers are the owners of these enterprises, and 
as owners they must take action. 
  Yesterday in Pinar del Rio a comrade asked: What will 
happen once all this is over? This is not going to end. This 
will continue. This is not a campaign. We are gathering ideas, 
suggestions, proposals. We are talking and explaining, and the 
people are understanding the situation. However, efficiency is 
not something you will achieve from one day to another. 
Efficiency is not something that will be achieved after a 
meeting. We must continue to work at each work center. We have 
production and service meetings that should be used to discuss 
efficiency. This would be very helpful for the country. We 
would help the country by analyzing economic efficiency. We can 
analyze how efficiently the subsidized units use their budgets, 
how the.... 
  [Pantoja, interrupts] The restaurants.... 
  [Ross, interrupts] Efficiency is the services that are 
offered, any kind of service offered by the labor groups. This 
can be discussed on a monthly basis. The workers would have an 
active role at these meetings; they would not be passive 
listeners. The union leaders are responsible for promoting the 
active role of the worker. 
  [Pantoja] The worker lost interest in the production 
assemblies; the idea behind these assemblies was lost. The 
administrations took an offensive stance. The administrators 
were the ones drafting the reports and presiding over the 
assemblies. The union stepped aside. 
  [Ross] Those are reports that say nothing. 
  [Pantoja] Totally technical reports. 
  [Ross] A report is not numbers alone. A report must also be 
a means to evaluate a situation. Where is the problem? Why 
this much, and not more? 
  [Pantoja] Pedro, what has happened is that technical words 
are used to describe technical problems, and we do not have the 
knowledge of the technical aspects of the work. We know nothing 
of productivity, costs, profitability. Now we must learn all 
these things. 
  [Ross] Because of the special period we cannot evade our 
responsibility in discussing these issues. The special period 
forces us to confront that discussion. 
  [Cruz] There is another problem we must broach. The people 
are discouraged when they cannot participate. This is why the 
production and service meetings lost their value. The workers 
felt that they did not have the right to be heard, to demand 
that he be heard. 
  [Pantoja] The problem was that issues were discussed month 
after month and no one did anything to improve the situation. 
  [Ross] You are correct. 
  [Pantoja] People get tired after a while. 
  [Ross] We now have the UBPC. The members of the UBPC are the 
ones who make the decisions. Whatever they say is law. There 
are currently 1 million workers who make up the UBPC's. 
  [Pantoja] I have more questions from our listeners. Ana 
Maria Mendoza Verdor, from San Miguel del Padron, wants to know: 
There is talk that there will be wage cuts. Will the wages of 
the manager or director of an unprofitable enterprise be cut as 
well? 
  [Ross] We do not have to lower the salary of a manager or 
director who is not capable of making his enterprise profitable. 
What we have to do is find a new manager. The solution is not to 
cut his wages. We have to demand efficiency from our managers. 
The manager must work efficiently. They are getting paid for 
that and it is their responsibility. 
  [Cruz] I have a caller on the line. 
  [Unidentified caller] Good morning. I am from Nuevitas 
Municipality, Camaguey Province. I work at the CATM [expansion 
unknown] at Nuevitas port. I am a coordinator with 28 years of 
service and am 52 years old. I would like Pedro Ross to answer a 
question. If there were a reduction here at the port and I was 
affected, what would happen to me if, because of my age and 
years of service, there is no other job for me? I would like to 
know what will happen to people like me? Right? 
  [Ross] You are about ready to retire. It has been said that 
all those workers who are nearing retirement age, who are 
efficient workers, and who have a good work record, will be 
given special consideration if this should occur. However, you 
are calling me from Camaguey. Camaguey is an area where 
manpower is needed. We need more workers at the power company 
in Nuevitas. We need more workers at that important power 
company. Changes have been made at the Nuevitas Port. I do not 
know what kind of a payroll they have there. You are working in 
an area that does not merit cuts; it is in those areas where we 
need more manpower. Once our economy improves we will have more 
work at the ports, and Nuevitas is one of the most important 
ports in the country. You told me that you work for the CATM. 
You are responsible for controlling and distributing the 
merchandise that comes into the country. We would have to study 
the situation there, but I can tell you and we have decided that 
those workers who are nearing retirement age must be respected 
and will have priority as far as remaining in their jobs is 
concerned. 
  [Cruz] Reina Cintras Portal from Sancti Spiritus also had a 
question regarding retirement: Are there any plans for the 
graduating youths and current labor or labor training problems, 
and are there plans to reduce the age for retirement? 
  [Ross] This is something that has existed for a long time. 
  [Cruz] This has been around for a while. 
  [Ross] Since we began to prepare for the 16th [CTC] 
Congress, 
this issue was discussed intensely, even in sectors such as 
education. In the next 25 years Cuba will see a drop in the 
growth of the active labor force due to birth rates, the 
demographic process we face in the next 25 years. In countries 
were life expectancy is being extended and people over 60 are 
physically strong and useful, active labor time is extended 
because that worker is an important resource for the country. 
We, Cuba, cannot adopt a measure in this regard on the basis of 
the situation we are trying to overcome. This is temporary. The 
less it lasts the better. We are going to need that work force. 
It is possible that in the future we might have to raise the 
retirement age, as is done in the developed countries where life 
expectancy is long. We have 1.1 million retirees in Cuba. Cuba 
paid 1.6 billion in social security in 1993. In other words, a 
fourth of what is paid in salaries in Cuba is paid through... 
  [Pantoja interrupting] How much was paid? 
  [Ross] 1.6 billion in retirement benefits and social 
programs. 
  [Cruz] This is an impressive figure for a country like ours 
and the problems we have. 
  We have about five minutes left. I want to remind all that 
on 
17 January there is going to be meeting of the union cadres in 
the CTC provincial school; on 18 January, there is going to be a 
meeting of union cadres at 1500 in the Martinez Prieto 
Agroindustrial Complex; on 19 January in Havana at 0900 and 1600 
in a merchant fleet vessel; on 20 January, the Cuban delegation 
to Latin American and Caribbean events will meet with Ariguanabo 
union cadres at 1300. The Havana UBPC will meet at 0900 on 24 
January in the Finlay Institute; on 25 January, there will be a 
meeting of the CTC Secretariat with union cadres of Havana port. 
The Solidarity with Cuba meeting continues in Batabano Fishing 
Complex on 27 January. On the 28th there will a ceremony to mark 
the 55th anniversary of the CTC at 1500 in the Lazaro Pena 
Theater; on 29 January, there will be a plenum of the CTC 
National Committee; and on 30 January a housing project 
inauguration in the 14 July neighborhood in Cienfuegos. 
  There are activities, discussions, debates scheduled for the 
rest of the month. I believe it has been quite a while since the 
workers have been so excited, because we know we are deciding 
the future of the nation, which is our own future. I believe 
there is a caller. Let us listen to her. 
  [Caller] My name is Mella Costa Vera, a worker in Boca Ciega 
Workers tourist village. In the previous program, Soledad Cruz 
proposed discussing today the issue of incentives for workers. 
Since it was not possible to discuss this issue due to the 
importance of all the issues discussed in the last two programs, 
I would like to propose that Comrade Pedro Ross check his agenda 
and see if he can participate in this program next Saturday [22 
January] to continue discussing these issues due to their 
importance for the country and the value of his explanations. 
This would clarify all the doubts we workers have when it comes 
time to make proposals. That is all I wanted to suggest. 
  [Ross] Well, since this program is early in the morning I 
can 
come. 
  [Cruz] I am truly glad about this caller's suggestion 
because 
there are many things to discuss and calls. We have a call from 
Eulalia Ginarche Miranda from Baguanos Municipality in Holguin. 
There are other questions by Reina [words indistinct]. There are 
other aspects to discuss of the letter from Ines Pacheco. 
  [Pantoja] We have about four or five more question left and 
there is time for more until Saturday. 
  [Cruz] There are issues such as personnel rosters which 
highly worry the workers. Will retirees and non-union workers, 
as well as housewives, get a chance to give their opinions? This 
is another interesting issue. There are many complaints from 
retirees that the country is not counting them, their 
experience, or help. I have many complaints from retirees. We 
will have to see if we create a retirees movement to also 
contribute to the work centers. How can we tell about ill-gotten 
money? Well, there are many issues. 
  I am glad you have shown so much interest in these open 
dialogues. Continue calling during the week the numbers 7-4587 
and 79-1903 from 1000 to 1200. See you next Saturday. Have a 
good weekend and do not forget to participate in the meetings in 
your work places. 

