Language: <F P=105> Czech </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Kohout: "A Comparison Between Financial Means </F>
for the Interior Ministry and the Secret Service"] 
  [Text] The Security Information Service [BIS] budget is 
secret and so is the number of its staff. According to the 
sources of a CESKY DENIK reporter, the 1994 BIS budget was set 
at 1.2 billion korunas [Kc]. 
  The planned staff of the secret service is approximately 
1,300 employees, but it has not been at full capacity for some 
time now. Approximately 800 employees work in BIS. A rough 
approximation gives us Kc1.5 million per one BIS employee. This 
amount includes the cost of social and health insurance, 
investments, wages, and so forth. 
  The Interior Ministry budget was approved this year in the 
total amount of Kc17.7 billion. After expenditures related to 
the Interior Ministry's Civilian Administrative Department, Fire 
Brigade Main Administration, and investment expenditures of the 
ministry are deducted, there are Kc16.2 billion left for the 
entire Security Department. This amount covers the needs of the 
police and other security divisions--the Foreign Relations and 
Information Office (intelligence), for instance. The employee 
total of all security divisions, including police, comes to 
approximately 56,000. A rough calculation gives approximately 
Kc289,000 per policeman and year. This budget also includes 
social and health insurance premiums, subsidies for subsidized 
organizations and civic associations, operational costs 
(maintenance, repairs, rent, power, etc.). A rough comparison 
shows that the Security Information Service has approximately 
five times greater funds (per worker) at its disposal than 
security divisions under the Interior Ministry umbrella. 
  [Prague DENNI TELEGRAF in Czech on 13 January on page 3 
carries Dusan Sramek article "Devaty Explains Secret Service 
Budget." It states: "Stanislav Devaty, BIS acting director, 
yesterday described the CESKY DENIK report, according to which 
reporter Lubor Kohout obtained information revealing the amount 
of the BIS budget as Kc1.2 billion, as complete disinformation."] 

