Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Zaporozhye January 29 TASS--The problem of storing 
nuclear fuel waste at Ukrainian nuclear power plants will 
possibly be resolved with the help of a contract concluded 
between the Zaporozhskaya AES amalgamation and the U.S. Duke 
Power Company. 
  Ukraine has no facilities to process nuclear fuel waste. 
Earlier, processing was done in Russia. Ukrainian nuclear 
plants have stockpiled a lot of used magazines after Russia's 
refusal to receive waste for processing. They are now kept at 
``cooling'' ponds which are virtually filled up. 
  If the problem is not resolved in the next 12-18 months, 
operating power units of nuclear plants should be switched off 
one by one. 
  The UKRINFORM news agency reports that storage facilities of 
the Duke Power Company have a general licence of the U.S. 
leading control organisation and are already in operation at 
three American nuclear power plants and two nuclear laboratories. 
  The Zaporozhye nuclear power plant has already started work 
to implement the contract: an ecological and technological 
feasibility report is now being drafted. 
  If this and following work is successful, Ukraine will have 
the first stage of such a storage facility for nuclear waste by 
the end of 1995. 
  In the agency's opinion, the construction of similar 
storages 
at other nuclear stations will help stabilise the situation in 
this field and to resolve the problem of temporary storage of 
nuclear fuel waste. 

