BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, 23 Apr (ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE) -- China's 
Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Security, and All-China 
Federation of Trade Unions recently issued a joint document 
prohibiting foreign-funded and privately run enterprises from 
shutting up their workplaces and dormitories to restrict the 
personal freedom of employees, and said that those who commit 
such crimes will be pursued with criminal responsibilities by 
the judicial departments according to the law. 
  When issuing the "Notice on Strengthening Labor Management 
in 
Foreign-Funded and Privately Run Enterprises, and on Earnestly 
Protecting the Legitimate Rights of Workers," the 
above-mentioned three organs clearly stipulated that 
foreign-funded and privately run enterprises cannot hire peasant 
workers without authorization, cannot put women workers in 
dangerous posts, and cannot hire child labors. 
  The "Notice" points out that the level of wages in 
foreign-funded and privately run enterprises cannot be lower 
than the level stipulated by the state and local governments, 
that the enterprises should give pay increases to workers in a 
timely manner according to the inflation index in the country 
and to the production and operation conditions of the 
enterprises, and that the enterprises must give full wages to 
workers on time and in the form of hard currency and must not 
owe them wages or deduct their wages. 
  The "Notice" says foreign-funded and privately run 
enterprises should strictly implement the state's system of a 
average 44-hour work week for workers, as well as the holiday 
system. 
  According to information, workers in foreign-funded and 
privately run enterprises, based on the spirit of the "Notice," 
may report to the local labor department, public security 
department, trade union, and relevant department those 
enterprise activities that violate the labor law. 

