Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Daneille Yang] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, Feb. 28 (CNA) -- Mainland China absorbed 
66.52 percent of Taiwan's total foreign investment in 1993, 
increasing Taiwan's dependence on the mainland, according to a 
Mainland Affairs Council (MAC) report released Monday. 
  Between January-October of 1993, Taiwan approved U.S.$4.56 
billion worth of foreign investment with U.S.$3.038 billion 
going to Mainland China, the report said. 
  A total of 9,167 mainland investment applications were 
recorded during the period, the report indicated. 
  Taiwan's total trade dependence on Mainland China grew from 
4.83 percent at the end of 1992 to 5.3 percent during the 
ten-month period, up 9.73 percent, the report said. 
  Taiwan's export reliance on the mainland grew 14.51 percent 
to reach 8.84 percent during the period, up from 7.72 percent 
registered at the end of 1992. 
  However, the degree of Mainland China's trade dependence on 
Taiwan only increased 0.45 percent over the ten months to reach 
4.92 percent. The mainland's export reliance on Taiwan was 
limited to 1.3 percent, down 0.02 percent, according to the MAC 
report. 
  Taiwan investors mostly concentrated their investments in 
manufacturing industries, including those producing rubber, 
plastic, electronic, electric, basic metal, food, beverage, 
textile, and chemical products. 
  Meanwhile, Taiwan's trade dependence on Hong Kong, an 
entrepot for mainland trade, also grew 12.4 percent during the 
period. Taiwan's export reliance on the british colony grew 2.7 
percent to reach 21.6 percent in 1993, compared with 18.9 
percent in 1992, the report noted. 

