BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Piet Dankert, Netherlands state secretary </F>
for foreign affairs, by unidentified correspondent; place and 
date not given: "Flimsy Computer Excuse for French Political 
Obstinacy"] 
  [Text] Perhaps it is the fact that he is resigning that 
makes the state secretary so forthright, or maybe it is a runup 
to an extremely critical position as a member of the European 
Parliament. Whatever the case, when it comes to Schengen, Piet 
Dankert does not mince his words. "This is a tragedy," he said, 
"an ongoing tragedy." 
  [ELSEVIER] So is Schengen synonymous with the failures of 
European integration? 
  [Dankert] I feel it is a matter of official sabotage of a 
political decision. 
  [ELSEVIER] What do you mean? 
  [Dankert] I have the strong impression that the French 
Interior Ministry has done its utmost to hinder the treaty from 
being implemented, and so far, it must be said, with a 
reasonable degree of success. 
  [ELSEVIER] Do you have an example of this? 
  [Dankert] Take, for example, the central computer of the 
Schengen Information System, which is under French control. 
Irrespective of the fact that the thing is useless, it has been 
shut down for five weeks because of a wrong command. Imagine 
that, a computer out of action for five weeks because of a wrong 
command! Have you ever heard of anything like that in industry? 
  [ELSEVIER] So what is wrong with the computer? 
  [Dankert] The system's national computers work perfectly, 
both from and to the central computer in the heavily guarded 
building in Strasbourg. However, we were told that problems are 
created when data from one country have to be transmitted via 
the central computer. 
  As far back as the ministerial meeting in Rome two years 
ago, 
we already objected that the French-German lobby did not choose 
the number one tender for a central computer, but the number 
two. Number one was a reputable U.S. company, which, 
incidentally, was headquartered in France. However, the French 
wanted the software to be supplied by a French state-owned 
company. History has taught us that we were right to object. 
Even the French are now saying that the software is useless. 
  But there is more. We are dealing with a French state-owned 
company in which the French Government has a direct interest. 
The continued existence of this company is dependent on further 
government assignments. 
  [ELSEVIER] You are suggesting that the French Government is 
purposely letting things drag on. 
  [Danker] I can note that at official level there has never 
been a constructive spirit to let the Schengen Information 
System function. Nor has there been such a spirit at the level 
of the Interior Ministries, neither under the past government, 
nor under the current government. Indeed, it was up to the 
French Foreign Ministry. This is related to the creation of 
Schengen as part of the European process. However, the Interior 
Ministry had a great deal of trouble looking over the border. 
Interior Ministries generally have problems doing that, but the 
French department is a case apart. 
  [ELSEVIER] Do you mean that the French have ulterior motives 
for stopping Schengen? 
  [Dankert] In recent years, the French have set a number of 
conditions, but at the talks last June in Madrid most of them 
were met. Only checks at external borders and Netherlands drug 
policy remain. Following further agreements, the French said in 
December: Things are going well. That message came from my 
French colleague Lamassoure at the Foreign Ministry, and it 
concerned Schengen. However, later we started noticing that they 
are not all that pleased, especially about the sale of hashish 
to foreigners in coffee shops. 
  In addition, the French still view Germany's eastern border 
as a problem. There are too many migrants coming through it. 
The Germans have already set up an extra 3,000 policemen there, 
but you will never make it watertight. Otherwise you have to 
start shooting, but that must not be our aim. 
  [ELSEVIER] So it is not really about the computer? 
  [Dankert] Perhaps in part, but I think that the computer is 
mainly an excuse for political obstinacy. 
  [ELSEVIER] What is going to happen now in Berlin? Is it time 
to pound the fist on the table? 
  [Dankert] We will get some insight into whether or not the 
problem with the computer is really a technical problem, or just 
an example of official or political sabotage. A crisis team has 
now been set up, but we are helpless because that thing is under 
the control of the French Government. My hope lies with the 
Germans, who are also fed up with it. I expect that they have 
sufficient political authority to raise a fist to the French. 
And if it should turn out that something really is wrong with 
the computer, then in Berlin we have to take the plunge and 
simply decide to set up another one. It is a scandal that this 
has lasted so long. This undermines European integration. 

