Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Text] Beijing, January 26 (XINHUA) -- The first lot of 
construction equipment contracts introduced for China's Three 
Gorges Project were signed here today. 
  The equipment, bought through international public bidding, 
includes bulldozers, graders, loading machines, hydraulic rigs, 
cranes and excavators. 
  These machines will be provided by U.S. Caterpillar China 
Limited, Ingersoll Rand Limited, Mannesman Demag, Fried Krupp 
AG, and Sweden Atlas Copco China Limited. The five companies 
are all well-known machinery manufacturers. 
  The time limit for the general Three Gorges Project is 17 
years. According to an official from the China Three Gorges 
Project Development Corporation Three Gorges Equipment Company, 
the construction equipment necessary for the whole project will 
be worth billions of U.S. dollars. 
  He said that the contacts signed today will introduce the 
first batch of construction machinery. Other machines for the 
project will be imported later. 
  Construction on the Three Gorges Project will start this 
year. Plans are for 20 million cubic meters of earth and stone 
to be excavated. 
  The first set of construction equipment will be delivered 
before the end of June, he said. 
  The international public bidding activity was conducted by 
China National Machinery Import and Export Cooperation and China 
National Technical Import and Export Cooperation, entrusted by 
the China Three Gorges Project Development Corporation Three 
Gorges Equipment Company. 
  According to the organizers, the international public 
bidding 
was the first one for the Three Gorges Project. During the 
first five days of bidding beginning on December 23 last year, 
13 domestic and foreign companies bought bidding documents. 
  Contracts with the five companies who won the bidding were 
settled after nearly one month of assessment and negotiations. 

