CSO 

  [Text] The H-2 launch vehicle has opened the way to the age 
of large satellites. It will be able to place 2-ton satellites 
in geostationary orbit or 6-ton satellites in circular orbit, 
increasing the payload capacity fourfold all at once. The demand 
for large satellites exists in inter-satellite communications, 
international image transmission and communication, safety 
measures associated with the travel of ships and aircraft, etc. 
Moreover, the H-2 enables the launch of a comprehensive 
observation/monitoring satellite that can collect various data 
that are indispensable to earth observation, such as that for 
global warming, El Nino, the ozone layer, etc. Of course, 
scientific satellites that observe space itself will be 
dependent on this vehicle as well. All the satellites to be 
launched by the H-2 -- to include those launched by all the 
vehicles all the way up to H-2 No. 9 (a total of 10 H-2s are 
slated to be built, including one spare) -- have already been 
scheduled, and all are expected to contribute to progress in 
space development and enrich our daily lives, as explained below. 
<H5>  Vehicle Evaluation Payload (VEP) </H5>
  The first satellite launched by the H-2 launch vehicle was 
the VEP. 
  It was a payload that confirmed that the vehicle indeed had 
the ability to open the way to the large-satellite age. The VEP 
had only sensors to detect its attitude and the equipment, 
batteries, and antenna to send the collected data to the ground. 
  The satellite is a box-like structure measuring 3 x 2 
meters, 
with a height of 3 meters. It has a mockup apogee propulsion 
engine and mockup fuel to simulate the balance of the actual 
satellite. It weighs 2.4 metric tons, which is the same as the 
geostationary type. 
  Toshiba and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries (IHI) have 
been jointly developing it since 1988. 
  The development cost was &yen;2.2 billion. The H-2's 
capability was to be judged on the basis of whether this 
satellite could be placed in a geostationary transfer orbit with 
a perigee of 450 km and an apogee of 36,200 km, as planned. This 
flight confirmed that the satellite was indeed placed in the 
transfer orbit. The satellite circled the earth once every 11 
hours or so; its service life expires, as designed, when the 
battery life terminates after about 100 hours (about 10 orbits). 
<H5>  Experimental Test Satellite-VI (ETS-VI) </H5>
  The second satellite launched by the H-2 was the ETS-VI. Its 
objective is to establish the technology for accurate 
three-dimensional attitude control, which is indispensable for 
the communication/broadcasting satellite of the 1990s. In order 
to achieve a precise orbit, the satellite uses Japan's first 
re-firing apogee motor. 
  Furthermore, it is going to face the task of highly precise 
position control and extension of the satellite life to 10 
years. Various technologies that could not be achieved by the 
550 kg limitation imposed on the satellites of the past will 
become possible with the development of this satellite. 
  The parties responsible for the development of the satellite 
are -- in addition to NASDA -- Communication Research Laboratory 
of MPT and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. The basic design 
was completed in 1983, and the manufacturing responsibilities 
were shared by Toshiba, Mitsubishi Electric, NEC, and IHI. The 
total development cost was &yen;41.5 billion. It measures 3 x 2 
meters, with a height of 7.9 meters. When its large, lightweight 
solar array is extended, it measures 30.5 meters in length. 
  When a satellite becomes large, its bus, which is the frame 
on which all the equipment is mounted, becomes too large, making 
it more likely to cause vibrations. 
  Carbon-fiber-reinforced plastics are used freely in various 
parts of the ETS-VI in order to achieve the required strength 
without increasing its weight. There are various sensors to 
measure the accelerations and shocks during launch, as well as 
antenna extension, solar array extension, and separation of the 
apogee engine. An ion engine (thruster), the first such hardware 
to be used in the world, and the high-performance 
nickel-hydrogen battery were installed as bus hardware. One of 
the unique features of this satellite is that this 
high-performance bus equipment enabled the use of mission 
equipment weighing more than 660 kg. 
  As for the communications hardware, it includes the Fixed 
and 
Mobile Satellite Communications Equipment, the Laser 
Communications Equipment, the Inter-Satellite Communication 
System, etc. The equipment life is expected to be 10 years, and 
the launch is slated for the summer of 1994. 
<H5>  Geostationary Meteorological Satellite-5 (GMS-5) and Space </H5>
Flyer Unit (SFU) 
  The GMS-5 and the space experiment/observation free flyer 
unit SFU are scheduled to be launched by H-2 No. 3 in February 
1995. GMS-5 is about 2 meters in diameter and 3.5 meters in 
height, and it weighs about 345 kg. It will be launched to 
geostationary orbit to observe the earth with visible-spectrum 
and infrared sensors and to provide meteorological data. The 
images of the earth captured by visible light as well as 
infrared light will be sent to the ground simultaneously every 
30 minutes. The resolution is 1.25 km for visible light and 5 km 
for infrared light. In addition to the collection of 
meteorological information, the satellite is capable of 
detecting distress signals sent out by ships and relaying them 
to rescuing organizations. It is being developed by NEC at a 
cost of &yen;14 billion. 
  The space experiment/observation free flyer unit is test 
equipment that carries the gaseous-phase-growth basic test 
device and the partial model of the exposed portion of the 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), which will be attached to the 
Space Station in the International Space Station Project. It 
weighs 4 tons, and its main body measures 4.7 meters in diameter 
and 2.5 meters in height; when the solar panels are extended 
fully, it has a width of 24.4 meters. IHI is developing the JEM 
exposed-portion model, while NEC is developing the 
gaseous-phase-growth basic test equipment. Both are being 
developed according to the U.S. NASA specifications and will be 
retrieved by the U.S. Space Shuttle in the summer of 1995. 
<H5>  Advanced Earth Observation Satellite (ADEOS) </H5>
  The ADEOS conducts the observations of various phenomena on 
the earth, such as the global warming, the depletion of the 
ozone layer, the destruction of the tropical rain forests, and 
abnormal climates. It is 4 meters wide and 7 meters high and 
weighs 3.5 tons. It is 23 meters long when the solar panel is 
fully extended. 
  It is being developed jointly by Mitsubishi Electric, NEC, 
and Toshiba at a cost of &yen;54.5 billion; it is expected to be 
launched in March 1996. 
  In order to solve the global environmental problem, it is 
necessary to maintain continuous observation of phenomena 
occurring on a global scale, and a satellite is most suitable 
for such a purpose. The ADEOS is equipped with various sensors 
to collect the necessary data. 
  More specifically, it is equipped with eight sensors 
developed by NASDA, the Environmental Agency, the Ministry of 
International Trade and Industry (MITI), NASA (United States), 
and the National Space Development Center of France. This 
satellite will be used also as a global environmental monitoring 
satellite. The satellite will fly a sun-synchronous 
quasi-recurrent orbit that has an altitude of 800 km and recurs 
every 41 days and 100 cycles; its service life is three years. 
  The sensors developed by NASDA make up the Ocean Color and 
Temperature Scanner (OCTS) -- which measures the ocean color and 
temperature, as well as the chlorophyll consistency -- and the 
Advanced Visible and Near-Infrared Radiometer (AVNIR) -- which 
monitors the tropical forest destruction, the expansion of the 
deserts, and the contamination of water resources and collects 
useful data for land uses and resource exploration. 
  The Environmental Agency provides the Improved Limb 
Atmospheric Spectrometer (ILAS) -- which monitors the ozone -- 
and the Retroflector in Space (RIS) -- which measures methane 
levels via laser. MITI is in charge of the Interferometric 
Monitor for Greenhouse Gases (IMG), which measures the 
atmospheric temperature and heat radiation balance. 
  NASA offers the Scatterometer (NSCAT) -- which measures the 
wind direction in 90 percent of all sea areas without being 
affected by the weather -- and the Total Ozone Mapping 
Spectrometer (TOMS) -- which measures sulfur dioxide, etc., 
generated by volcanoes. France offers a device called POLDER, to 
measure the polarization and directionality of the earth's 
reflectance. These major pieces of hardware are being assembled 
at NASDA's General Environmental Testing Building located in 
Tsukuba City of Ibaragi Prefecture. 
<H5>  Advanced Earth Observation Satellite-II (ADEOS-II) </H5>
  ADEOS-II is a successor to ADEOS, designed to meet the needs 
of continuous earth observation and to detect environmental 
changes as a contribution to the international community. The 
international contribution is particularly important, as it is 
necessary to collect sufficient earth observation data in order 
to succeed in current international projects such as the World 
Climate Research Program (WCRP) and the International 
Geosphere-Biosphere Programme; a development budget of &yen;69 
billion is being negotiated to fund the project. 
  According to the schedule, the satellite will be launched in 
1998. It weighs about 3.5 tons and is supposed to carry 12 
sensors. The Global Imager, which is one of the sensors to be 
carried, is an improved version of the Ocean Color and 
Temperature Scanner. It can measure not only the ocean, but also 
the atmosphere, so that it can survey marine biology cycles, 
forest destruction, desert expansion, aerosol, etc., all at 
once. The Fisheries Agency, the Environmental Agency, the 
Ministry of Construction (land covering map), and the ministries 
of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries are all interested in 
the data to be provided by the satellite. 
<H5>  Tropical Rain Forest Measuring Mission Satellite (TRMM) </H5>
  In measuring global change, it is necessary to know 
precisely 
the rainfall and the heat radiation from the ground and to 
collect the data globally. The rainfall in the tropical region 
accounts for two-thirds of the all the rainfall on earth. TRMM 
measures rainfalls and water circulation in this region. 
  To do that, it will carry a rain radar and active-type 
microwave-radiation equipment. The rain radar will be developed 
by Toshiba, and the satellite itself will be constructed jointly 
by the United States (NASA) and Japan. 
  The satellite is to be launched in the summer of 1997 to a 
circular orbit with an altitude of 350 km. It is going to carry 
a sensor to observe thunder and measure its energy. Its weight 
is about 3.6 tons. 
<H5>  Communication and Broadcasting Technology Satellite (COMETS) </H5>
  The purpose of COMETS is to establish the technologies for 
inter-satellite communications and sophisticated satellite 
broadcasting, as well as to develop a new technology for mobile 
communications. NASDA is in charge of supplying the 
inter-satellite communications equipment, the Communications 
Research Laboratory of the Ministry of Posts and 
Telecommunications is in charge of the high-speed mobile 
satellite communications equipment, and both of these 
organizations are responsible for developing the broadcasting 
equipment and the mission itself. The satellite is a box 
measuring 2 x 3 x 3 meters and is 30 meters long when the solar 
array is extended fully; it weighs about 2 tons and is scheduled 
to be launched in February 1997. It is jointly manufactured by 
NEC, Toshiba, and Mitsubishi Electric at a cost of &yen;44.2 
billion. 
  The inter-satellite communications are transmitted between 
an 
observation satellite or a space station in low earth orbit and 
a ground station via relay satellite in orbit. It must be 
capable of detecting the satellite and tracking it. Therefore, 
it is going to be equipped with a steerable antenna measuring 
3.5 meters in diameter. The broadcasting equipment is intended 
for developing a technology to enable regional broadcasting. 
<H5>  Engineering Test Satellite-VII (ETS-VII) </H5>
  ETS-VII is a satellite to be launched simultaneously with 
TRMM and is intended to establish the system technology required 
for rendezvous/docking and space robots. Toshiba, Mitsubishi 
Electric, and NEC are in charge of the development. It will be 
launched to an altitude of 550 km. The target satellite to be 
docked with is a box measuring 0.7 x 1.7 x 1.5 meters. The main 
satellite measures 1.8 x 2.3 x 2 meters. 
<H5>  High Resolution Observation Satellite (HIROS) </H5>
  HIROS is capable of conducting observations for the purpose 
of damage control associated with tsunamis, high tide and 
flooding, or city planning and checking forest timber stands. 
  It will have a sensor with a resolution of 2.5 meters so 
that 
it can be used for developing maps with a scale of 1/25,000. The 
satellite is going to be launched in 1999 to a sun-synchronous 
recurrent orbit with an altitude of 700 km. 
  Since it will be able to detect minute changes in an area, 
such as those from land usage change, oil spillage, shore 
erosion, volcanic erosion, etc., it will be effective in 
environmental control and conservation, as well as disaster 
monitoring. 
  One of the key items to be developed is a variable off-nadir 
synthetic-aperture radar; a portion of the total development 
budget of &yen;82 billion is being negotiated. 

