BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Elimination of Border Checks Strikes </F>
Fear"] 
  [Text] In Germany, Belgium, France, and the Netherlands the 
elimination of border checks at Europe's internal borders is 
anticipated with some concern. More than half of the people in 
those countries (57 percent) fear an "increase in crime in their 
country." Netherlanders and inhabitants of the former East 
Germany are most fearful, registering 66 and 67 percent, 
respectively. 
  This is the conclusion of an international survey whose 
results were presented Tuesday [24 May] in the German city of 
Gronau. The survey was commissioned by the Netherlands Police 
Academy (NPA) and the German Police Academy (PFA). 
  The same survey also showed that there is widespread support 
in the four countries for international police cooperation in 
the European Union. One striking fact is that Netherlanders in 
particular are fervent supporters of more in-depth cooperation. 
  In addition, no less than 97 percent of Netherlanders want 
information on criminals to be exchanged between international 
police bodies. The average in the four countries is 2 percent 
lower. 
  The Netherlands also favors a joint police structure, such 
as 
Europol: With 96 percent in favor, compared to an average of 92 
percent in the four countries involved in the survey. 
  A total of 80 percent of the respondents felt the police 
should be able to chase and arrest suspects across internal 
borders. That percentage puts the Netherlands squarely in the 
middle. 

