CSO 

  [Text] The Honorable Dr. R. Nedunchezian, minister of 
finance, government of Tamil Nadu, presented the budget for 
1994/95 in the Legislative Assembly and delivered the following 
speech: 
  1. The Honorable Speaker: 
  I take great pride and pleasure in placing before the 
Assembly for its approval revised estimates for 1993/94 and the 
budget for 1994/95. 
  "That leader who has these four qualities--munificence, 
gracefulness, justice, and care of the people--is a light among 
the rulers," said Saint Tiruvalluvar. The Honorable Chief 
Minister, the revolutionary, Dr. J. Jayalalitha embodying these 
qualities, has striven tirelessly to give this state an 
excellent administration. 
  2. As per Tiruvalluvar's definition of a good ruler, the 
Chief Minister Dr. Jayalalitha gives donations and welfare aid 
to the poor people, responds positively to people who seek help, 
rules in a fair and just manner, and gives protection to the 
underprivileged masses, thus working in an admirable way. All 
impartial observers are aware of this fact. 
  With such fine characteristics of a good ruler the Honorable 
Dr. J. Jayalalitha strives to fairly administer the state, and 
the people of Tamil Nadu have always given her their 
wholehearted support. The state under the leadership of Dr. 
Jayalalitha is firmly committed to adhering to the basics of the 
policy and ideals of our great scholar C.N. Annadurai and the 
constructive programs with full compassion for the masses 
initiated by our great leader M.G. Ramachandran. 
  3. Tamil Nadu stands out as an exceptionally successful 
state, maintaining peace, law, order, and unity, while at the 
same time achieving rapid all-around economic development. There 
is basic assurance and maintenance of law and order. The threat 
posed by foreign militants and extremists has been rooted out. 
No disruptive force has been allowed to rear its ugly head. 
Tamil Nadu today stands out in India as an oasis of peace and 
harmony, and this wholesome situation has enabled it to march 
forward with strident steps. 
  4. The honorable members are well aware of the grave 
economic 
crisis of 1991. It was during this unprecedented economic crisis 
that the Honorable J. Jayalalitha came to head the 
administration of the state. The new economic policy enunciated 
by the Center in the wake of this major economic crisis 
incorporates some basic policies of stabilization and structural 
adjustment. It has also envisaged a new long-term view of 
economic growth. We share the same vision of prosperity and 
rapid economic growth. It is imbued with this vision that we 
endorse the policy to integrate the Indian economy with the 
global economy, secure a quantum increase in investment to 
promote employment, and create a liberalized environment, 
facilitating the growth progress. At the same time, we have been 
most concerned about the situation of the poor and 
underprivileged people in the wake of the stabilization and 
structural adjustment processes. Whenever she speaks at the 
regional or national conferences, our chief minister the 
Honorable Dr. J. Jayalalitha pleads vigorously for great care in 
implementing any policy that affects the poor. The Center's 
recent increase in prices on various items like rice, diesel, 
and LPG [liquified petroleum gas], etc., in the public 
distribution system, and the increase of railway freight rates 
on coal have put the states in a difficult situation. Our 
administration has endeavored to protect the poor and 
underpriviliged people from the ill-effects of this price 
increase. 
  5. Despite an extremely difficult financial situation, the 
rice distribution subsidy, which was Rs [Rupees] 105 crore was 
stepped up to Rs400 crore in 1993/94. As the Central Government 
has raised the procurement price of rice intended for public 
distribution, to be effective from February, the state 
government was left with no other option but to raise the price 
of rice also. Hence, the subsidy climbed up to Rs440 crore in 
1993/94. In addition, in 1994/95 a provision of Rs75 crore has 
been made to discharge the arrears that have accumulated. The 
total subsidy for 1994/95 is thus Rs515 crore, which is the 
highest provision ever made. It will be clear that this 
government has done its utmost to protect the poor from the 
immediate effects of the increase in rice prices announced by 
the Center. 
  6. It is absolutely essential to keep a close watch on 
prices, particularly on the basket of commodities consumed by 
the poor. The Center will have to exercise utmost vigilence in 
controlling the rate of inflation. The fiscal deficit in 1993/94 
and the position anticipated do lend cause for concern that 
price increases may again pose problems. The instruments of 
macro-economic management are wholly with the Center, and even 
as steps are taken to stimulate the economy, we urge the Center 
to take appropriate measures to hold the prices in check. 
  7. It has always been our stand, consistent with the 
philosophy of a strong union of prosperous and autonomous 
states, that the Constitution needs to be changed to ensure that 
the Center have all the powers to protect and safeguard the 
sovereignty of the nation, while the states have the powers and 
responsibilities for growth and welfare. We shall continue to 
reiterate this stand. Recent economic trends confirm this 
perception of the relative roles of the Center and the states. 
  8. We are keen that the Center-state fiscal relations be 
anchored on sound principles of a matching resource base and 
duties. In the context of the new economic policy, there has 
been a decisive shift in the functions of the government with a 
clear tilt toward the social sectors. Conventionally, the states 
have had a much larger role to play in the social sectors. While 
the Central initiatives in deciding the national goal and the 
way we achieve these goals are always welcome, it is essential 
that the states have adequate resources to deal with the needs 
of these sectors on their own. It is in this context that the 
honorable chief minister has pleaded forcefully that the states 
be empowered with adequate inflows to undertake such programs on 
their own. It is not appropriate to introduce new 
Centrally-sponsored schemes in the garb of externally aided 
projects. It is best that states be assured of getting resources 
to handle the needs of these sectors on their own. 
  9. Recent trends in the Center-state resource allocations 
leave us quite concerned. We are greatly affected by the slow 
down in the growth of Central excise duties, the mainstay of 
resource allocations, as recommended by the Finance Commission. 
We are also concerned that the tax potential under the Income 
Tax Act has not been fully realized. This situation has come 
about after the states' percentage share of both income tax and 
excise duties has remained stagnant for a decade. This indeed is 
a worrisome situation. This highlights the need to immediately 
take up the question of assigning to the states a share in the 
corporation tax. This has been a longstanding demand of the 
states. The Sakaria Commission on Center-state relations has 
clearly recommended that the corporation tax be shared with the 
states. Successive finance commissions have also seen the merit 
in the states' argument, but have been unable to move forward 
without any specific indication in their term of reference. With 
de-licensing, de-control, and liberalized systems, states are 
being informed that they will have to act quickly to upgrade the 
infrastructure and provide the necessary support for industry to 
move ahead. It is all the more relevant that a share of the 
corporation tax be made available to the states at this 
juncture. We do hope that the Center will make specific 
reference to the 10th Finance Commission even at this late stage 
on the question of sharing the corporation tax with the states. 
  10. We are also deeply concerned about the situation 
relating 
to the levying of the consignment tax. In our view not levying 
this tax leads to a considerable amount of evasion of the sales 
tax. The chief minister in December 1993 brought this up during 
her meeting with the vice chairman of the Planning Commission. 
She expressed her view that it would not be appropriate to 
reconsider the decision made at the chief ministers' conference 
under the chairmanship of the late Rajiv Gandhi. It is not right 
to link the levying of the consignment tax with other questions 
relating to interstate trade. The unanimous decision already 
made on the issue of levying the consignment tax needs to be 
implemented immediately. We would once again urge the Center to 
bring forward necessary legislation in the current session of 
the Assembly for the levying of the consignment tax. 
  11. In a rapidly growing economy, it is a well-known 
phenomenon that the services sector's relative share will 
increase and the growth of the interest rate is usually high in 
the services sector. The Indian economy is no different. While 
raising resources to finance plans, programs, and essential 
activities of the government, it is important that the service 
sector also be tapped. While welcoming the new direction in the 
Central budget for 1994/95 toward taxing the service sector, we 
are concerned that this tax is to be levied, collected, and 
wholly appropriated by the Center. We are of the view that this 
is not in harmony with the spirit of the Constitution. The 
Constitution gives the states the right to impose taxes on the 
sale or purchase of goods. It should thus be clear that the 
power to levy and collect taxes on services should be with the 
states. No doubt reliance could be placed on the residual entry 
in the union list, but this would not be a logical construction 
given the nature of the sale of services. In a study entrusted 
to the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, the 
question of taxation on services has been studied in depth and 
the states have stressed the view that taxes similar to the 
central sales tax could be collected and retained by the states. 
In the long run, in financial services, etc., where uniformity 
of taxation is necessary, these could be under a Central tax. 
Suitable constitutional amendments are necessary to bring about 
these changes. Even as the matter is under consideration, we are 
concerned that the Center will levy taxes on certain services 
and fully appropriate the revenue. We are hopeful that the whole 
issue will be discussed in the right perspective. We are also 
deeply concerned that the Center is unmindful of the states' 
static resource base and is engaging in its drive to enlarge its 
resource base. A share in the tax on the service sector cannot 
be denied to the states, when they have contributed more than 40 
percent to the GNP. 
  12. The honorable members of this Assembly are aware that 
the 
10th Finance Commission is to submit its report before June 
1994. As desired by the Commission, we have submitted detailed 
reports, estimates, etc. The Commission is likely to hold its 
session in Madras in April 1994. It has a crucial role to play 
in view of the vast changes that have occurred in the resource 
base available to the Center and the states, and their relative 
roles. We have noticed two pronounced shifts taking place in the 
fiscal scenario. First, we are greatly concerned by the lack of 
buoyancy in the growth of Central tax revenues relevant to the 
states, namely in the growth of basic excise duties and the 
delay in realizing the full potential under the Income Tax Act. 
Second, there has been a marked and decided shift in favor of 
the states with regard to the responsibilities expected to be 
discharged by them. This is with particular reference to the 
enhanced role of the government in the social sector, and the 
increasing role of the private sector in areas earlier reserved 
for the public sector. It is thus seen that these trends have 
accentuated the fiscal difficulties faced by the states. We have 
presented our forecast to the 10th Finance Commission and will 
reiterate it when the Commission visits the state. It is 
relevant to highlight the fact that the states are facing an 
unenviable situation. 
  On the one hand, the rapid increase in prices of various 
commodities administered by the Center and the general rate of 
inflation caused by the national economic crisis have put 
tremendous pressure on the state's ability to contain 
expenditure growth. On the other hand, the states increasingly 
find it difficult to mobilize additional resources from the 
conventional resource base allotted to them. The net result has 
been an extremely difficult financial situation for the states. 
Any plan to contain expenditure can only be implemented in the 
interim. It is essential that, in the transfer of resources 
between the Center and the states in the revised fiscal 
scenario, a forward looking scheme of rescuing the states from 
the financial crisis be developed by the 10th Finance Commission. 
  13. In particular, we have been greatly distressed by the 
recommendations of the Ninth Finance Commission, as adopted and 
implemented. The recommendations proved to be most disappointing 
for Tamil Nadu. It assessed Tamil Nadu as a state with surplus 
income in the non-plan revenue account, but the actual position 
has turned out to be one of large deficits. It has maintained 
the share for all the states at the state level of 45 percent in 
basic excise duties. Worse still, the effective share of all 
states excluding the earmarked share of deficit states, has 
really gone down from 40 percent to 37.53 percent. 
  Third, in its projections, the Finance Commission has 
assumed 
a low inflation rate, whereas, the actual experience has been 
totally contrary. In addition, Tamil Nadu has also suffered due 
to the wrong estimation of surplus income and thereby a denial 
of a substantial amount of planned revenue-grant. We eagerly 
anticipate that the 10th Finance Commission, with its term of 
reference, will render justice to the states. The fiscal 
situation confronting all the states in the wake of the 
recommendations of the Ninth Finance Commission is extremely 
troublesome. Only a fresh view of the scheme of resource 
allocation to the states can rescue the states from their 
plight. We hope the 10th Finance Commission will break new 
ground in developing a resource-transfer scheme that will lead 
states confidently into the 21st century. 
<H5>  The Annual Plan </H5>
  14. The honorable members are well aware that our 
revolutionary leader has demonstrated that every year we have 
been achieving a lot more than the goals adopted under the 
approved outlay in the annual plan. We have achieved more than 
what other plans with higher outlays have achieved. The measu re 
of achievement is indeed praiseworthy. In the year 1992/93 among 
the 15 non-special category of states, eight could not complete 
the plan's outlay. Tamil Nadu stands out as one of the states 
that not only completed the approved plan outlay of Rs1,766 
crore for 1992/93, but went on to identify additional areas of 
need and actually perform an outlay of Rs 1,935 crore, an excess 
of Rs169 crore over the outlay. This singular fact will 
demonstrate our ability to implement plans and programs for the 
maximum benefit of the people. 
  15. For the year 1993/94, we are confident that the approved 
plan outlay of Rs2,101 crore will be achieved. In fact, the 
revised estimates for 1993/94 now provide for a total outlay of 
Rs2,140.30 crore. It is this record of performance that has 
enabled the Union Planning Commission to approve for Tamil Nadu 
a significantly higher plan outlay of Rs2,750 crore for 1994/95. 
This is a step up over the 1993/94 outlay. The honorable Dr. J. 
Jayalalitha has secured for our state a higher plan outlay, and 
this has enabled us to march forward with confidence to 
implement a good plan of programs and effective services to 
benefit the masses. Under the administration of our 
revolutionary leader, the per capita plan outlay of Tamil Nadu 
in 1994/95 of Rs492.30 will be considerably higher than the 
national per capita plan outlay of Rs433.20. It is an 
extraordinary achievement that this government, despite severe 
financial difficulties, has stepped up investment through good 
planning from a situation much below the national average to a 
position of strength that is significantly higher than the 
national average. It is no exaggeration to say that Tamil Nadu 
has now moved into a higher growth trajectory through systematic 
attention to planned development. It is a record that we have to 
protect with great care and caution, even if some sacrifices are 
involved. We have to inevitably prune some lower priority 
expenditures to find the resources to finance the plan outlay. I 
request that the honorable members of the Assembly bear in mind 
this central theme. 
<H5>  The Police Department </H5>
  16. Our chief minister the honorable Dr. J. Jayalalitha has 
taken measures to make our State Police Department work 
efficiently and with compassion, and for this the members of the 
Assembly will applaud her wholeheartedly. It is a matter of 
utmost satisfaction that the state police is functioning with a 
new sense of vision and direction. Minor situations that have 
risen have been handled most competently. Peace and 
tranquillity, which constitute the bedrock of growth in the 
state, have been ensured. 
  17. The budget includes a total provision of Rs307.19 crore 
for the police force in 1994/95 as against Rs320.13 crore in 
1993/94. Despite fiscal difficulties, this government has tried 
to provide maximum resources to enable the police force to be 
modernized. At one stage the Union home minister gave assurances 
that an additional amount of Rs30 crore would be sanctioned. 
This amount has not yet been released. We would urge the 
Government of India to provide at least this amount in 1994/95. 
We have also submitted a separate plan for a coastal security 
force estimated to cost Rs12 crore. We urge the Government of 
India to accord early approval for the plan and extend necessary 
assistance. 
  18. An expense of Rs10 crore has been incurred in 1993/94 
under the state scheme of modernizing the police force. This 
amount has been used to provide 237 police stations with jeeps, 
raising in some cases from one to two battalions, provision of 
arms and ammunition, as well as essential infrastructure 
facilities. It has gone a long way in upgrading the capability 
of the state police. We intend to continue the state scheme of 
modernizing the state police in 1994/95. The effort will be to 
completely upgrade the mobility-communications capabilities, 
increase equipment availability, and enhance functioning arms 
and ammunition. No effort will be spared in making the Tamil 
Nadu police the best in the country. 
  19. As a result of various welfare schemes undertaken by the 
state government, the morale of the police has been increased to 
a substantial level. The big scheme to provide housing to the 
police constables has progressed in a notable manner. In 1993/94 
at the cost of Rs12.5 crore, 1,000 houses were built for the 
constables. This is the highest number of houses built in a 
year. The housing project will continue in 1994/95 also. For 
this purpose, a special allocation of Rs5 crore has been made. 
The Uniformed Service Recruitment Board (USRB) has completed the 
planned recruitment of 10,000 new police constables. The newly 
recruited constables have been trained and are now being 
positioned in the field. This has been a significant 
strengthening of the State Police Force and will considerably 
enhance the capabilities of the police force in tackling any 
situation. The USRB is now in the process of completing the 
recruitment of 500 police deputy inspectors. This will further 
strengthen the capability of the State Police Force. 
<H5>  Cyclone and Flood Relief </H5>
  20. Tamil Nadu has been repeatedly battered by severe 
cyclones, storms, and floods. Continuously from 1991 we have had 
to provide massive relief and restoration measures far beyond 
what our financial resources could meet. Every year we have been 
sending detailed reports to the Central Government. Yet the 
financial aid came only under interim relief funds. This was not 
adequate for the purpose. 
  So we had to spend a substantial amount in addition to the 
aid given. It is for this reason that we have sent a detailed 
project report with an outlay request for Rs2,560 crore to the 
Government of India to be passed on to the World Bank. The World 
Bank has extended assistance to Andhra Pradesh for a cyclone 
emergency reconstruction project. We also understand that the 
World Bank has recently agreed to extend assistance to the 
government of Maharashtra for reconstruction following the 
earthquake in that state. Tamil Nadu's situation following the 
successive batterings by repeated cyclones is equally serious. 
We are not quite able to perceive why Tamil Nadu's 
reconstruction plan cannot be approved. We do hope the Center 
will prevail upon the World Bank to enable this government to 
take up a proper reconstruction project. 
  21. The recent cyclones and floods in November and December 
1993 have struck different areas and have caused widespread 
damage. We have already sanctioned an expenditure of Rs75.37 
crore for various relief and restoration operations. The 
assistance so far received is Rs29.25 crore including the 
advance release of Rs14.63 crore from the Calamity Relief Fund 
due for the year 1994/95. The World Bank has recently agreed to 
sanction Rs31 crore under the Agricultural Development Project 
to take up flood restoration work. The 10th Finance Commission 
will have to take note of the total inadequacy of the Calamity 
Relief Fund arrangement in the case of Tamil Nadu, and provide 
for a substantially enhanced allocation at least from the year 
1995/96. We have already made detailed submissions in this 
regard to the 10th Finance Commission. We will reiterate this 
when the Commission meets in April in Madras. 
<H5>  Development Schemes </H5>
  22. As we step into the new financial year 1994/95, I 
briefly 
mentioned to you many policy problems that have given cause for 
great concern. Due to want of time, I request that details of 
various schemes and services in part B of my speech kindly be 
taken as read in the Assembly. Part B details the schemes about 
agriculture, food processing, irrigation, village development, 
cattle breeding, fisheries, forestry, industries, fuel sources, 
roads and transportation, environment, Madras metropolitan area, 
housing, education and welfare, drinking water supply, 
well-being of women and children, food and nutrition, welfare of 
the Adi Dravida and Aborigines, labor welfare, loan schemes, 
employment facilities, and the welfare of government workers. 
Among these development schemes, there are some new ones and 
special projects for various sections of the people. The members 
of the Assembly will certainly approve the new efforts detailed 
in the budget. 
  23. The details of these schemes are given in part B of the 
speech, yet I would like to mention a few big schemes and 
services. 

  -  Foodgrains production has been increased to a record level 
of 100 lakh crore tons. The new areas emphasized are increasing 
capital investment in agriculture, emphasis on production of 
high value crops, improvement of irrigation, watershed 
development, wasteland development, and human resources 
development. A new human resources development project at a cost 
of Rs76 crore will be launched in 1994/95. 
  -  The water resources consolidation project with a total outlay 
of Rs952 crore is to be launched in 1994/95, with a budget 
provision of Rs40 crore. This government urges the Government of 
India to implement the Peninsular River water grid and the 
Pamba-Achan Koil-Vaigai link, in particular, at the earliest. A 
major program for standardizing 4,270 temple tanks will be 
continued. 
  -  New legislation incorporating the 73d and 74th amendments to 
the Constitution will be introduced in this session. The 
District decentralization plan has been doubled from Rs20 crore 
to Rs40 crore in 1994/95. 
  -  A total area of 150,000 acres will be covered under 
afforestation in 1994/95. A Tamil Nadu forestry project for the 
protection of biodiversity, at a cost of Rs300 crore, will be 
taken up with external assistance. 
  -  The Madras Industrial Park, which will attract 1 billion 
American dollars investment will be established. We urge the 
Center to implement the southern gas grid as soon as possible. A 
new growth center is proposed to be established near Madras on 
1,000 acres. TACID [expansion not given] will promote the 
Tirupur development project with ILFS [expansion not given] 
support at an estimated outlay of Rs550 crore. Tamil Nadu 
Newsprint and Papers Ltd's expansion plan will be implemented in 
1994/95 with an outlay of Rs200 crore. A new leather industrial 
estate will be established near Madras. 
  -  The highlight of the power situation in Tamil Nadu has been 
the 
absence of any energy cuts. The plan outlay on this sector in 
1994/95 will be Rs625 crore, a 16-percent increase over 1993/94. 
The first stage of the North Madras Thermal Power Project with 
three units of 210 Mw will be completed in 1994/95 and one unit 
will be synchronized with the grid. Work on the Basin Bridge 
gas-based power project with four units of 30 Mw has started. 
The Jayamkondan Integrated Lignite Mining &amp; Power Generation 
Project to generate 1,500 Mw with an investment of Rs7,500 crore 
will be taken up in the associate sector. The memorandum of 
understanding to establish a 100 Mw ocean thermal energy plant 
at a cost of Rs800 crore is a major initiative to attempt to 
harness and utilize a perennially renewable source of energy. 
  -  A substantial increase of 26 percent in the allocation for 
road 
maintenance has been made in 1994/95 over 1993/94. A road sector 
project at a cost of Rs880 crore, has been formulated for World 
Bank financing to completely upgrade the road system in the 
state. In 1994/95, all villages with a population of more than 
1,000 as per the 1981 census will be provided with all-weather 
roads. 
  -  An integrated coastal area development project will be begun 
with external assistance. 
  -  A Rs112.50 crore project proposal to clean the Madras 
waterways 
and to provide for sanitation has been sent for external 
assistance. 
  -  The outlay on Tamil Nadu urban development will be Rs150 
crore. 
A new state integrated program for the urban poor will be 
launched in 1994/95 to cover 100,000 urban poor families. 
  -  The Madras Vision 2000 plan envisages an investment of 
Rs4,000 
crore in six years to make Madras the favored destination in the 
country. The Metropolitan Infrastructure Development Corporation 
will be established to finance infrastructure development within 
the city. The budget provides Rs15 crore as share capital for 
this corporation to take its total capital base to Rs60 crore. 
  -  "Shelter for all" is the policy of this government. In 
1994/95, 
housing for 125,000 families will be provided through a number 
of schemes. 
  -  The district primary education project will be launched in 
Dharmapuri, Thiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar, 
Villupuram-Ramaswami-Padayachiar, and South Arcot-Vallalar 
districts at a total cost of Rs120 crore over a period of five 
years. 
  -  As already announced, the World Tamil Conference will be held 
at Thanjavur in a grand manner in January 1995. The Thanjavur 
Palace and Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal at Madurai will be fully 
renovated. 
  -  The legislation to provide for compulsory enrollment and 
retention of children in schools, without penal provisions, will 
be introduced in this session of the Assembly. A new women's 
college will be started at Ramanathapuram in 1994/95. 
  -  Every taluk will be provided with at least one 32-bed 
hospital 
in 1994/95. New pediatric neonatal clinics will be set up in 
each taluk hospital. A World Bank assisted blindness control 
project and AIDS control project will be launched. 
  -  The planned outlay for drinking water supply will be stepped 
up 
to Rs387.72 crore in 1994/95. The budget provides Rs110 crore 
for the New Veeranam project and Rs100 crore for the Krishna 
water supply project. The water supply schemes for Coimbatore, 
Salem, and Madurai will be completed during 1994/95. All 1,239 
habitations who do not have a protected water source will be 
covered in 1994/95, so that there will be no habitation in the 
state that is without a protected source of water. A 
desalination plant of 1 million liters capacity per day is to be 
installed at Narippaiyur in Ramanthapuram District at a cost of 
Rs10.75 crore. 
  -  Two special incentive schemes to promote literacy among 
Scheduled caste female children will be launched. Scheduled 
caste female children in Dharmapuri, 
Thiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar, Villupuram-Ramaswami-Padayachiar, 
and South Arcot-Vallalar districts, who are likely to drop out 
at the end of standard II [second grade] will be given a special 
incentive of Rs500 each on completion of class III, IV and V. 
This scheme will cost Rs1.50 crore. A monthly payment of Rs100 
will be made to all indigent, rural, scheduled caste female 
children entering standard VI during the coming year. This 
scheme will cover 30,000 scheduled caste female children 
throughout the state and cost Rs3 crore. 
  -  The program of Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Finance and 
Development Corporation will be stepped up to Rs13 crore to 
benefit 10,000 persons in 1994/95. A special provision of Rs1 
crore will be made in 1994/95 for the provision of free house 
sites to backward class beneficiaries. 

  In aquaculture, two projects to cover 150 hectares in the 
Palk Bay at a cost of Rs13.88 crore and 50 hectares at 
Tharuvaikulam in V.O. Chidambaranar District at a cost of Rs2,20 
crore will be implemented. 

  -  One lakh women will be assisted in improving their incomes 
through various self-employment schemes in 1994/95. The child 
welfare sub plan, which is the 15-point child welfare program of 
revolutionary leader Dr. Jayalalitha put into action, will be 
implemented in 1994/95 at a cost of Rs697.65 crore. The total 
outlay on the revolutionary leader Dr. M.G. Ramachandran 
nutritious noon meal program will be Rs345.36 crore in 1994/95, 
as against Rs312.42 crore in 1993/94. 
  -  The budget provides for Rs46 crore for the scheme to supply 
free clothing for men and women in 1994/95. The budget also 
provides Rs5 crore for assistance for cooperative spinning 
mills. 
  -  A new scheme for health coverage for unorganized labor will 
be 
implemented through primary health centers and hospitals. The 
budget provides Rs1 crore for this scheme. The provision for the 
family distress relief scheme is being enhanced to Rs25 crore to 
cover 50,000 beneficiaries. 
  -  The total outlay on the Jawahar employment schemes in 1994/95 
will be Rs220.59 crore. All the employment programs together 
will generate a record total employment of 10-crore man-days in 
1994/95. 

<H5>  Social Security Scheme for the Poor </H5>
  24. In my last budget speech, I placed before you the 
concept 
of protecting the welfare of poor people--improving their 
standard of living by means of a social security net. In the 
wake of the Center's change in basic policies of stabilization 
and economic structural adjustment policy, this particular plan 
for improving the standard of living of the poor was welcomed by 
the people of the state. Our state under the leadership of the 
Honorable Chief Minister Dr. J. Jayalalitha has been making 
special efforts to improve the standard of living of the poor. 
Due to the difficult economic crisis situation at the national 
level, most of the states have to reduce their allocation of 
funds for the welfare of their people. The Honorable Chief 
Minister Dr. J. Jayalalitha has always emphasized that the 
outlay for the social security scheme, intended to protect the 
poor people and improve their standard of living, should be 
increased. The budget for 1994/95 includes a record provision of 
Rs1,599 crore for the social security net for the poor. 
  25. The social security net for the poor that we have 
organized is a comprehensive safety net encompassing food 
security and nutrition for the aged, expectant mothers, and 
children; primary health care and medical services for the poor; 
universal elementary education; employment programs for the 
poor; essential drinking water; shelter for the homeless; social 
security programs and special programs for the weaker sections. 
  26. The outlay for 1994/95 represents a major step over 
1993/94. The effort of the government is to safeguard the poor 
and improve the quality of their life. A recent study by the 
Reserve Bank of India shows that Tamil Nadu is in the forefront 
in providing the maximum outlay to the social sectors. In 
1993/94 the expenditure on social services in Tamil Nadu was 41 
percent of the total expenditure, one of the highest among the 
non-special category states. We are proud of this record, 
namely, that even as we try to secure higher economic growth in 
the context of the new economic policy, the situation of the 
poor is being constantly monitored and every effort is made to 
improve their standard of living. In continuation of the 
long-term plan initiated by the honorable chief minister, all 
the schemes have greatly contributed to promote amity and good 
relations among the various sections of the people of our state. 
<H5>  Fiscal Position </H5>
  27. I shall now attempt to explain the difficult task of 
finding funds for the various schemes and services highlighted 
and to balance the revenue income and revenue expenditure in the 
budget. Members of this Assembly may recall that at the time 
this administration came into power, there was a grave economic 
crisis; the fiscal situation was near collapse. It was thought 
necessary to reduce the outlays for the plan. We have succeeded 
in achieving fiscal stability and, more importantly, established 
a good track record of exceeding the approved plan outlay both 
in 1991/92 and 1992/93. We are now poised to do so again in 
1994/95. We have set forth an ambitious plan outlay of Rs2,750 
crore in 1994/95. The performance of this enhanced outlay will 
call for considerable ingenuity and finesse. 
<H5>  Budget Estimates </H5>
  28. In 1993/94 the budget estimates revenue receipts total 
was Rs6,989.89 crore and revenue expenditures amounted to 
Rs8,300.87 crore and the total deficit was Rs1,310.98 crore. The 
initial estimated deficit was Rs275 crore. Under all heads of 
debit and credit, the net deficit was Rs359.95 crore. Due to new 
taxes and efforts to effect economy, the anticipated net balance 
was Rs80 crore. Therefore the total deficit, taking into account 
everything, was expected to be Rs555.89 crore. 
  29. Because the deficit was so huge, we had to take many 
steps to prevent any reduction in the planned outlay. In the 
revised estimate for 1993/94, the total income under the revenue 
heading was Rs7,215.13 crore and expenditures were Rs8,407.41 
crore and the final deficit was Rs1,192.28 crore. We have to 
mention that in order to bring under control the continuously 
increasing income deficit, we have to take many steps. Taking 
into account that the final balance at the end of the year 
1992/93 was Rs32 crore and the net total deficit was Rs228.82 
crore at the end of 1993/94, it is expected that the net deficit 
will be Rs196.82 crore. While we allocate funds for the planned 
outlays, we have to mention that we have succeeded in bringing 
down the deficit figure more than expected. 
  30. In the year 1994/95, the budget estimates the revenue 
receipts to be Rs7,844.37 crore; expenditures to be Rs9,083.53 
crore; and the net deficit is expected to be Rs1,239.16 crore. 
The 1994/95 budget estimates that under all account headings, 
the net deficit will be Rs2,021 crore. If we add this to the 
1993/94 revised estimate deficit of Rs196.82 crore at the end of 
1994/95, the total deficit will be Rs398.05 crore. 
  31. To manage the widening income deficit, our practice has 
been to raise loans. This has become a necessity. If we do not 
borrow, we may have to reduce outlays for the welfare plans for 
the poor. Our Honorable Chief Minister Dr. J. Jayalalitha has 
been very firm that under the circumstances, we could allow any 
reduction in the plan outlays. [sentence as published] Therefore 
we have had to resort to borrowing, and these loans have further 
increased our responsibilities. In my last budget speech I 
mentioned the long-term methods of controlling growth of 
expenditure, keeping in mind the non-flexible and meager 
financial resources allowed to the states by the Constitution. 
<H5>  Policy on Expenditure </H5>
  32. "If one person's expenditure does not widen, his income, 
however small it may be, does not matter; that person will not 
be ruined." These are the words of Saint Thirvalluvar. 
  Bearing this advice in mind we have formulated the policy on 
expenditure. We have no doubt that the honorable members of the 
Assembly will give wholehearted support. 
  33. We have implemented the policy on the expenditure report 
I submitted last year. At the same time I want to place before 
you a few details. In Tamil Nadu unplanned revenue expenditure 
during the five-year period ending with 1992/93 was up per year 
on the average of 22.6 percent. At the same time, the state's 
revenue was up by 19.2 percent. This is the main reason for the 
deficit total. This has to be brought under control. It has 
become necessary to explore all the possibilities for 
controlling the rate of expenditure. In this endeavor, the 
honorable members of the Assembly must give their wholehearted 
support to the administration. I am aware it is difficult to 
take meaningful control of expenditure growth. There has been a 
demand for additional funds for various schemes. We have to be 
vigilant in seeing that funds go only to the welfare schemes for 
the poor and to preventing money going to people with less need. 
I have to mention that a few sectors deserve priority in 
connection with the control of expenditure. 
  34. We have to make sure that new ideas on improved 
productivity are introduced in government operations. With a 
view to doing away with unnecessary procedures and to improving 
further effectiveness, we have introduced the "Z" bag [as 
published] system--budgeting from the beginning--to achieve fast 
growth. We adopted a system to stop new appointments at the 
recruitment level itself. This was misunderstood as denial of 
employment opportunities, hence it was withdrawn. Instead, we 
decided that at the needed locations, selected changes should be 
made. In the past five years, the allotted funds for pay, wages, 
and retirement have gone up considerably. In this connection, we 
must remember that we have to take certain corrective action. 
  35. Second, prices have been going up higher and higher, and 
various concessions we give people cost us more. As a result, 
not enough funds are available for development work. Without 
withdrawing these concessions, we should make them available to 
the really needy people. At a time when we do not have resources 
for income, it becomes all the more important that we make sure 
that these concessions do really reach the needy people. We 
propose that extensive research be done to see that the 
concessions really reach the poor people. 
  36. Third, there are expenditures on some government 
services 
that do not give back adequate returns. By charging appropriate 
fees for such services, the government expenditure could be 
reduced. This could be done by charging fees on higher 
education, medical services, and economic services like 
irrigation. Without reducing the allocation for any welfare 
projects for the poor, we will charge an appropriate fee from 
those who can afford to pay. By this action the net total 
expenditure burden will be reduced. We should increase the 
amount of fees and fines that the government collects. A higher 
rate of fees has to be collected for the use of certain 
government lands. We should be careful about increasing the fees 
for government service for those who are not poor. 
  37. Fourth, we have decided to withdraw financial support to 
bridge the losses incurred by the public sector undertakings. In 
the past, disregarding the financial burden to the state, we 
have been giving this support to the public sector undertakings, 
which have been operating at a loss. Due to the government's 
mounting financial burden, we cannot continue this support. With 
a view toward preventing financial loss to the public sector 
undertakings, we already have a turn-around plan. If certain 
public sector undertakings continue to operate at a loss, we 
have taken steps to hand them over to the private sector. 
Bearing in mind all the aspects of the problem, we intend to 
study every case separately. 
  38. Fifth, the highest emphasis will be put on economic 
measures in government spending. We have introduced many 
extensive schemes to bring about effective economy, and these 
will be sincerely implemented. 
  39. Our effort, with the package of measures I have 
outlined, 
is to effect savings to the tune of Rs95 crore in 1994/95. We 
are hopeful that we will find all-around support for achieving 
this goal. 
  40. The honorable members are well aware that the reforms in 
the sales tax system of the state that we undertook in last 
year's budget have been widely appreciated, as a very major 
scheme of tax simplification. The rationalization of rate 
structure; the extension of concessional rates to more raw 
materials, consumables, and packing materials; and enhancement 
of the exemption limit to a total turnover of one lakh have all 
been appreciated as a major reform package. 
  41. It is our intention to continue the process of tax 
reform 
and simplification. It is our aim to minimize cascading taxes. 
As a part of this process, we have decided to extend the 
concessional rate under Section 3(3) to some mineral oils and 
gases, used as raw materials. At the same time, diesel fuel 
cannot be entitled to concessional rate under section 3(3). To 
give effect to this, suitable amendments will be introduced. 
  42. In my last budget speech, I indicated the need to 
prevent 
evasion of sales tax. With this intention, I proceeded to 
include a few items that are evasion prone under Schedule VI. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Goods                                 |Rate of tax                           | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1. Pre-recorded cassettes, audio &amp;|3| 
| video and compact discs              |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2. Instant coffee                     |5| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3. Scented nut, roasted, or roasted s-|8| 
|eeval                                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4. Steel shelves, office equipment, e-|8| 
|tc.                                   |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5. Biscuits, toffees, other brand ite-|12| 
|ms                                    |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6. Soap                               |12| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7. Toothpaste and powder              |12| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|8. Scents &amp; perfumes, hair oil, e-|16| 
|tc.                                   |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|9. Suitcases                          |8| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10. Vegetable oils                    |3| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|11. Timber                            |8| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|12. Cardamum                          |3| 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  It may be noted that there is no change in the rate of tax 
in 
respect to the above items. The change being made is to include 
them under Schedule VI to prevent evasion of tax. 
  The rate on the tax on furniture will be increased from 8 
percent to 12 percent and furniture will also be included as a 
separate item under Schedule VI. 
  44. Last year, as a measure of simplification, we introduced 
the facility of a compounding provision on an optional basis on 
civil works contracts. [sentence as published] The compounding 
rate of tax at 2 percent for civil works contracts was also 
introduced. The time allowed to exercise the option for 1993/94 
was to 30 June 1993. 
  There have been recommendations to extend the period for 
exercising the option. We have decided to allow until 30 June 
1994 to exercise the option for the years 1993/94 and 1994/95. 
  45. In my last budget speech I indicated that we would 
discuss the question of exemption of various goods from tax, in 
order to tax such items that do not merit exemption. In tax 
reform we should keep in mind the need to widen the tax base, 
keeping the rates as low as possible. A large number of 
exemptions defeat this purpose. In the simplified system that we 
have implemented since last year, it becomes all the more 
essential that unnecessary exemptions be withdrawn. The high 
power sales tax reforms committee headed by B. Vijayaraghavan, 
IAS [Indian Administrative Service], in its report, recommended 
the complete withdrawal of almost all exemptions for goods and 
institutions. Even items of common use like paddy, rice, wheat, 
common salt, etc., were recommended for taxation. We have given 
careful thought to these recommendations and examined them in 
detail. We have decided to protect the poor from any possible 
increase in prices, and therefore, we have chosen to continue 
the exemption on a number of goods that are mainly used by the 
poor. The following will continue to be exempted from taxation, 
by specific entries in Schedule III--primary food stuff that is 
unprocessed, such as cereals, rice, wheat, fresh milk, common 
salt, fresh meat, fresh vegetables and fruits, etc.; some 
agricultural and horticultural produce, agricultural inputs, 
simple agricultural implements; animals other than race horses; 
pottery and palm products; family welfare items; blood and 
plasma; some life-saving medicines, certain country drugs and 
all physically-handicapped welfare prosthetics and appliances; 
unconventional energy devices and boilers using municipal waste; 
slates and slate pencils; wood covered lead pencils and chalk 
pieces; cloth rags; UNICEF greeting cards and calendars; 
cycle-rikhshaw (without motor); electrical energy; bangles other 
than those made of platinum, gold, and silver; kum kum powder 
for ladies to wear on the forehead, eye-makeup and ready-made 
thali (marriage badge tied around the neck of the wife by the 
husband). 
  46. In addition to the above goods, synthetic gems, Xerox 
copies, laser copies, computer printouts on paper that has 
previously been taxed, and inter-state sales of coconuts will be 
exempted. 
  47. The exact list of items that will continue to be 
exempted 
is stated separately. 
  48. The items for which exemptions are being withdrawn are 
brought under Schedule I. 
  49. Exemptions from sales tax to institutions involves 
greater diversity and complexity. These will be reviewed later. 
  50. In the last budget the union finance minister indicated 
that the question of levying a value-added tax would be referred 
to the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. There 
are very many detailed issues that have to be gone into in the 
consideration of implementing a value-added tax system. At this 
stage it would therefore not be appropriate to consider radical 
changes in the sales tax structure, such as the merging of 
surcharge taxes, additional sales taxes, or the passing on of 
additional sales taxes. We shall examine all these issues 
together at the appropriate stage. 
<H5>  Luxury Tax </H5>
  51. Cigarette smoking is injurious to health. It is not only 
a luxury, but a dangerous luxury. I have decided to impose a 
luxury tax on the supply of tobacco, except beedies. [indigenous 
smoking product]. The tax rate will be 5 percent. This tax will 
be levied on all tobaccoists whose receipts on account of all 
the supply of tobacco is above Rs1 lakh per financial year. 
Suitable legislative amendments to the Tamil Nadu Luxury Tax Act 
are in the current session of the legislature. 
  52. The high power sales tax reforms committee recommended 
that cable television be brought under the Entertainment Tax 
Act, since the network is expanding rapidly. The government has 
decided to accept the recommendation and levy an entertainment 
tax of 40 percent on the gross receipts of the cable television 
operators. 
  53. With a view to encouraging the production of new films 
in 
the state and to enable low budget Tamil films to withstand the 
competition from films produced in other languages and dubbed in 
Tamil, it is proposed that a higher entertainment tax be levied 
on the dubbed films screened in the state by 10 percent in each 
slab. 
  54. A suitable amendment to the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax 
Act will be brought in the current session of the legislature. 
<H5>  Excise Duty </H5>
  55. We propose that rates of excise duty on certain 
categories of Indian-made foreign spirits (IMFS) be 
rationalized. The medium brands and premium brands will be 
charged at the same rate of Rs75 per liter. The present rate for 
medium brands is Rs70 per liter and for premium brands will be 
Rs85 per liter. The revised rates will be effective as of 1 
April 1994. 
<H5>  Motor Vehicles Tax </H5>
  56. It is proposed to make certain changes in the taxation 
structure of light motor vehicles. The present rates payable are 
as follows: 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Unladen weight    |Imported          |Indian-made(in Rs |Owned by Others   | 
|                  |                  |per annum)        |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Not more than 700 |1,200             |800               |400               | 
|kg                |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 700 kg  |1,500             |1,000             |500               | 
|but not more than |                  |                  |                  | 
|1,500 kg          |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 1,500 k-|1,800             |1,200             |600               | 
|g but not more th-|                  |                  |                  | 
|an 2000 kg        |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 2,000 k-|1,950             |1,300             |650               | 
|g but not more th-|                  |                  |                  | 
|an 3,000 kg       |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 3,000 kg|2,250             |1,500             |750               | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  57. The rates are prposed to be revised as follows: 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Unladen weight    |Imported          |Indian-made(in Rs |Owned by Others   | 
|                  |                  |per annum)        |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Not more than 700 |1,500             |1,000             |500               | 
|kg                |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 700 kg  |1,950             |1,300             |650               | 
|but not more than |                  |                  |                  | 
|1,500 kg          |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 1,500 k-|2,250             |1,500             |750               | 
|g but not more th-|                  |                  |                  | 
|an 2,000 kg       |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 2,000 k-|2,400             |1,600             |800               | 
|g but not more th-|                  |                  |                  | 
|an 3,000 kg       |                  |                  |                  | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 3,000 kg|2,700             |1,800             |900               | 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  58. The existing taxation rate for ordinary motor cabs 
(metered taxis) is Rs120 per quarter. We propose to revise this 
rate to Rs150 per quarter. 
  59. In the case of tourist cabs, the existing rate of Rs150 
per quarter is proposed to be revised to Rs200 per quarter. 
  60. The existing rate of taxation for tourist maxicabs 
[large 
taxi] of Rs125 per seat per quarter we propose to be revised to 
Rs150 per seat per quarter. 
  61. The existing rate of taxation for All India Tourist Omni 
Buses is Rs500 per seat per quarter. We propose it be changed to 
Rs1,000 per seat per quarter, to bring it on a par with ordinary 
omni buses. 
  62. The tax structure in the case of goods carriages is 
proposed to be modified as follows: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Laden weight             |Existing rate            |Proposed rate            | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Not exceeding 3,000 kg   |520                      |545                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 3,000 kg but n-|845                      |885                      | 
|ot more than 5,500 kg    |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 5,000 kg but n-|1,290                    |1,355                    | 
|ot more than 9,000 kg    |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 9,000 kg but n-|1,690                    |1,775                    | 
|ot more than 12,000 kg   |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 12,000 kg but  |1,840                    |1,930                    | 
|not more than 13,000 kg  |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 13,000 kg but  |2,190                    |2,300                    | 
|not more than 15,000 kg  |                         |                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|More than 15,000 kg      |2,190plus Rs50 per every |2,300plus Rs50 per every | 
|                         |250 kg and part thereof  |250 kg and part thereof  | 
|                         |in excess of 15,000 kg   |in excess of 15,000 kg   | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  63. The tax in respect to stage carriages is proposed to be 
revised as follows: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|--                       |Existing rate            |Proposed rate            | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|                         |in Rs per seat per quarter                         | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Express services         |300                      |360                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Moffussil services       |325                      |360                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Town services            |260                      |275                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Metro services           |50                       |60                       | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|The existing surcharge rates will continue unchanged.                        | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  64. For the vehicles belonging to recognized educational 
institutions, the taxation rate is proposed to be revised from 
Rs1,500 per annum to Rs2,000 per annum. In addition, we propose 
that the tax on vehicles belonging to unrecognized educational 
institutions be revised to Rs500 per quarter from the present 
rate of Rs110 per quarter. This brings the tax on vehicles 
belonging to both recognized and unrecognized educational 
institutions on a par. 
  65. Earlier, rig-mounted vehicles were treated as goods 
carriages. However, the Government of India, by a recent 
notification, has reclassifed them as non-transport vehicles. 
Therefore, it is proposed to incorporate a separate category in 
the First Schedule of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 
1974, to cover rig-mounted vehicles and to levy a lump sum tax 
of Rs2,500 per annum on them, irrespective of the laden weight. 
  66. The revised rates I have announced will take effect 1 
April 1994. 
<H5>  Electricity Tax </H5>
  67. The Tamil Nadu Electricity (Taxation on consumption) 
Act, 
1962 provides for the levying of a tax on the consumption of 
electricity. The taxation rate is 4 percent on the sale of 
electricity. Meanwhile, we have in the last budget brought the 
normal sales tax rates under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax 
Act of 1958 to a standard rate system of 3, 8, 12, 16, 20, 25, 
50 percent. [sentence as published] All rates have been brought 
into the revised system. Consistent with this change the rate of 
tax on consumption of electricity will be rationalized from 4 to 
5 percent effective 1 April 1994. Domestic connections including 
hut connections, agricultural consumers, and captive generation 
will continue to be exempted from this tax. Fresh legislation to 
provide for the revised rate of taxation will be introduced in 
the current session of the legislation. 
<H5>  Agricultural Income Tax </H5>
  68. The rates for deduction of replanting expenditure under 
section 5(G) of the Agricultural Income Tax Act have been fixed 
based on the economic life of the various plantation crops. Due 
to technological improvements in recent years and the 
development of high yielding varieties, many of the plantation 
crops now have a shorter economic life. We therefore propose to 
increase the permissible deduction for replanting expenditure 
under section 5(G) to 2.5 percent of the acreage in the case of 
tea, 3.33 percent for rubber and coffee, and 10 percent for 
cardamum. 
  69. At present, admissible interest on borrowed working 
capital is limited under section 5(K) of the Act to 9 percent on 
an amount equivalent to 25 percent of the agricultural income. 
In order to simplify matters, we have decided to amend this 
clause allowing full deduction of the interest on working 
capital. 
  70. At present there are certain restrictions on 
admissibility of expenditure in respect to bonus, provident fund 
contributions, gratuity, and other benefits to the employees. We 
propose to amend the Agricultural Income Tax Act to bring it on 
a par with the Income Tax Act 1961 in respect to these items. 
  71. These changes will take effect as of the assessment year 
1994/95. 
<H5>  Conclusion </H5>
  72. I indicated earlier in my speech that the deficit for 
1994/95 would be Rs398.05 crore. With the measures relating to 
economy in expenditure, better return for services rendered by 
government and better targeting of schemes to benefit the poor, 
the net saving will be Rs95 crore. The net effect of the various 
taxation measures I have outlined will be Rs48 crore. The net 
final deficit for 1994/95 will be Rs255.05 crore. We will seek 
to control the closing deficit for 1993/94 and thus keep the 
overall deficit in 1994/95 within manageable levels. 
  73. The continuously widening large revenue deficits 
indicates clearly that the 10th Finance Commission would have to 
take note of Tamil Nadu's case for a grant to cover the 
recurring unplanned revenue account deficit. To secure justice 
for our state, we shall endeavor to explain to the Commission, 
the great need for help. 
  74. We hope that in the coming year, the Center will take 
steps to improve the collection of revenues under basic excise 
duties, so that the states get enhanced shares. We are relying 
on a greater buoyancy under this tax to provide some relief in 
1994/95. We have already expressed our desire to the vice 
president of the Planning Commission, to issue bonds for sale, 
to raise funds for providing services for basic necessities for 
towns like supply of drinking water and electricity. We hope we 
will be able to get a substantial amount from this source. With 
this amount and also effective regulatory steps to control 
expenses for the new projects under the unplanned category, we 
firmly believe that we can control the 1994/95 budget deficit 
and at the same time achieve the planned outlay of Rs2,750 crore. 
  75. The people of Tamil Nadu have given a great victory to 
the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party led by 
revolutionary leader Dr. J. Jayalalitha, to usher in an era of 
growth and prosperity in the state. This administration is 
functioning in a manner that will keep the trust of the people. 
The threats from foreign militants and extremists have been 
rooted out. In the wake of this unique achievement, the people 
expect that an all-out effort will be made to march forward. The 
comprehensive social security net will in large measure protect 
the poor people and raise their standard of living. Our efforts 
for planned growth have enabled Tamil Nadu to move forward into 
a higher growth trajectory. This is evident from the track 
record of increasing the fiscal plan allotments and also 
implementing it effectively. This in itself is an eloquent 
testimony to our achievement. 
  76. We vowed to provide the people of Tamil Nadu a fine 
standard of living. In the process of carrying out that promise 
we have had to face many tribulations. The Honorable Dr. J. 
Jayalalitha has been championing the cause of the poor and 
underprivileged people in every forum. Her selfless dedication, 
devotion, and foresight have been responsible for recovering 
Tamil Nadu from the difficult economic crisis and for enabling 
it to move forward in the path of peace and prosperity. Today, 
Tamil Nadu stands out as a beautiful garden of peace, marching 
forward with confidence to provide its people with a high 
quality of life. This administration, which works with 
dedication to the cause, has been able to protect and improve 
the quality of life of the poor people. I firmly believe that, 
while many new projects in the budget we initiated will raise 
the standard of living of the poor people, they will continue to 
stimulate further our growth achievements. This budget with an 
unprecedented outlay of funds gives great importance to the 
overall growth. We will work tirelessly to attain the goals we 
desired. 
  77. I expect the honorable members of this Assembly who 
participate in the debate to offer constructive suggestions on 
the basis of fairmindedness, justice, and honesty, without 
heated arguments. 
  78. In preparing this report on the state of finance so 
efficiently the secretary of the Department of Finance M.N. 
Narayanan, IAS, and other officials of his department and other 
departments as well deserve my heartfelt thanks. 
  79. I request the Assembly kindly accept the report on the 
financial position for the year 1994/95. 
V.R. Nedunchezian 
Finance Minister 
Madras, 23 March 1994 
Tiruvalluvar year 2025 
Panguni 9. 
<H8>  Part II </H8>
<H5>  Agriculture </H5>
  1. Though Tamil Nadu was struck by severe storms and floods 
in November 1993, our state is in a new position to attain a 
record level in food production of 1 million tons. Our farmers 
deserve the highest praise for this achievement. 
  2. On a national level there is a prevalent idea that, 
instead of giving subsidies on fertilizers, electricity, and 
water, it is better to increase investments in both private and 
public sector undertakings involved in producing products 
related to agriculture. It is argued that, as we set aside a big 
sum for subsidies, we are unable to provide the necessary 
capital to provide facilities for our farmers in the villages. 
Recently in Tamil Nadu there has been a prevalent trend of 
rising prices of essential agricultural products. In Tamil Nadu, 
the procurement prices of a rough variety of rice per quintal 
has been raised to Rs310, from Rs270; a medium quality of rice, 
raised to Rs330, from Rs280; and the nicer variety raised to 
Rs330 from Rs290. Thus, the procurement price of rice after 1990 
has doubled. For sugarcane, the recommended price per ton has 
been raised to Rs450, from Rs345. The farmers of our state have 
enthusiastically welcomed the increased prices for their 
products, treating it as a gift for all their toil. As a result, 
farmers' dependence on the subsidies has been reduced. The trade 
relationship between agriculture and other manufacturing sectors 
has improved. 
  3. In order to accelerate the growth of agriculture, we have 
to pay special attention to the following points of great 
importance. Greater efforts should be made to bring fallow land 
under cultivation. Water resources should be preserved and used 
in a more efficient manner. By improving the irrigation 
facilities, the cultivation of other food grains would be 
enhanced. Emphasis on production of high value crops, 
agricultural exports, cultivation of wasteland, and capital 
investment in agriculture are to be intensified. New 
technological methods including environmental development should 
be improved in order to bring down the cost. Human resources 
development should be given high priority. Special plans for 
cultivation of various kinds of food grains and increase in 
their yields should be intensified. We will implement this 
policy enthusiastically in 1994/95. 
  4. I want to mention a few important aspects of the new 
plans 
we propose to implement in 1994/95. Through our scheme to 
improve the fallow lands that were not cultivated before, we 
have brought 40,000 acres under cultivation. In 1994/95 we 
intend to bring 25,000 acres of wasteland under cultivation. 
  5. We have been giving high priority to the water resources 
protection scheme. As a result of so many irrigation projects, 
we intend to cover 214,250 acres. Kamarajar, 
Pasumpon-Muthuramalinga-Thevar, and Ramanthapuram districts will 
benefit in 1994/95 through a multi-resources water improvement 
plan, costing Rs13.51 crore. In those districts 25,700 acres 
will get water. In the second phase, at a cost of Rs41.72 crore, 
106,000 acres in Tirunelveli-Kattabomman, and V.O. Chidambaranar 
districts will benefit. Water-drop spray irrigation schemes will 
be further strengthened. It is expected that this scheme will 
benefit 10,000 acres in 1994/95. The scheme is extended to cover 
the sugarcane crop also in 1994/95. For this scheme, a sum of 
Rs6.7 crore may be allocated. 
  6. We have decided to take steps to promote the increase of 
exports of agricultural products. In order to promote 
cultivation of horticultural produce and to increase their 
export, we propose that a new cooperative be started. It will be 
called the Tamil Nadu Horticultural Cooperative Union. Emphasis 
will be on the cultivation of cashew nuts, mushrooms, onions, 
etc. Processing of seeds and raising of flowering plants will be 
treated as professions, and to promote them, necessary financial 
aid will be given. 
  7. In the new situation that has evolved after the 
acceptance 
of the Dunkel draft, we should be sure that the farmers get the 
improved variety of seeds. The honorable chief minister has 
given orders that in order to provide our farmers with improved 
seeds and technology, an expert high level committee should 
investigate current research fields and give guidance. For the 
first time in our country, it is the Tamil Nadu Agricultural 
University that made a great achievement in producing a new MGR 
[expansion not given] hybrid rice. 
  8. In our state, special efforts should be made to 
popularize 
among the peasants the use of manure from waste of living beings 
and integrated insecticide methods to improve cultivation, 
keeping up good environmental standards. The budget has provided 
Rs25 lakhs for the production of manure and Rs10 lakhs for the 
development of the integrated pesticide method. 
  9. We have started a program to give training to women in 
agriculture with the aid from Danida [Danish International 
Development Agency] at a cost of Rs28.74 crore. This scheme 
called TANWA II [expansion not given] will have a published 
budget allotment of Rs1.80 crore. On the completion of the 
program, 7.44 lakhs women will have the benefit of training in 
agriculture. We propose to start very soon a human resources 
development scheme at a cost of Rs76 crore with aid from the 
World Bank. This scheme will help enlarge the knowledge and 
ability of the officials of agricultural universities, 
veterinary universities, forestry departments, agricultural 
engineering departments, and fisheries departments. 
  10. Under the Tamil Nadu agricultural development scheme, 
with World Bank aid, we have undertaken various projects to 
benefit agriculture and village areas at a cost of Rs310 crore. 
In order to identify areas of low productivity and to improve 
the productivity, we will make a special effort in 1994/95. The 
Tamil Nadu agricultural development scheme will have an 
allotment of Rs41.81 crore for the year 1994/95. 
  11. An oil seeds production scheme will be implemented at a 
cost of Rs11 crore. Special focus will be on growing oil-giving 
palmyra trees. These trees are planted on 2,500 acres in the 
districts of Tiruchirapalli, Tanjore, and 
Nagapatttinam-quaidemillath. 
<H5>  Food Processing </H5>
  12. We have selected food processing as an important 
department. Our objective is to select five important products 
and to encourage extensive foreign investment in the processing 
sector. In order to secure for our farmers good prices for 
their produce, we will provide them with market contact 
facilities. To ensure quick progress in this new and big 
venture, a committee will be formed. 
  13. To undertake the food processing work, an organization 
to 
be known as the Agri-Business Consortium, consisting of small 
farmers, will be started at Dharmapuri. 
  14. We intend to implement a scheme to improve the method of 
producing boiled rice at the Bolur rice factory, owned by the 
Tamil Nadu Consumers Trade Association, at a cost of Rs5.63 
lakhs. There is also another important effort--the daily 
production capacity at the rice mill in Ammanpettai, which is 
owned by the same association, will be increased to 200 metric 
tons from 100 metric tons, at a cost of Rs3.19 crore. The method 
of paddy [rice before harvest] boiling will also be improved. 
<H5>  Irrigation </H5>
  15. Tamil Nadu has almost exhausted its surface water 
resources. We have very little water resources beneath the 
ground surface. We must increase our water resources. The 
honorable members of the Assembly may recall that in order to 
make the Central Government ask the Karnataka government to 
implement the decision of the impartial tribunal on the Cauvery 
water dispute, the Honorable Chief Minister Dr. Jayalalitha went 
on a historic fast, unto death, in July 1993. During those 
critical days, the people of Tamil Nadu gave their great 
emotional support to their chief minister. The Central minister 
for water resources met with the chief minister and announced 
that the Central Government would appoint two committees to be 
involved in implementing the tribunal's interim order. We trust 
that the Karnataka government will implement the order of the 
tribunal in the coming year. 
  16. There has not been substantial progress in implementing 
the Peninsular River water grid scheme. They should at least 
divert the course of the westward rivers without any further 
delay. The Pamba-Achan Koil-Vaigai link, in particular, should 
be implemented at the earliest. We hope the Central Government 
will treat the Peninsular River water grid as a high-priority 
project. In its first phase, the Pampa-Achan Koil link should be 
implemented. 
  17. In 1994/95 there is a budget provision of Rs125.56 crore 
for irrigation schemes, including small irrigation projects. We 
have to take steps to make sure that efficient use of 
above-ground water resources is made. With this thought in mind, 
we have developed the Tamil Nadu water resources scheme with 
World Bank aid. In the 1994/95 budget statement on our financial 
position, Rs40 crore has been allotted for this purpose. This 
scheme, which is to be completed in seven years, is estimated to 
cost Rs952 crore. This will help in repairs and in renovating 
the existing irrigation facilities and improve their efficiency; 
it will also facilitate the increased participation of farmers 
in the maintenance of irrigation facilities, and it will protect 
water resources and stabilize the established irrigation 
facilities. The efficiency of operating methods and systems of 
the irrigation section of the Department of Public Works will be 
developed completely, and it will acquire expert knowledge in 
how to serve the farmers better. The scheme will include the 
following: 

  -  Pallarru Dam irrigation project 
  -  Seyyaru Dam irrigation project 
  -  Poinee Dam irrigation project 
  -  Lower Bhavani Dam irrigation project 
  -  Vaigai irrigation project 
  -  Parambikulam-Aliyaru irrigation project. 

  18. We trust the World Bank will give us the clearance for 
the scheme. 
  19. We have to make sure that the irrigation facilities are 
properly maintained. We have set aside Rs200 per hectare for 
1993/94 and Rs265 per hectare for 1994/95. We are determined to 
adopt our ancient practice of involving farmers fully in the 
maintenance of the irrigation facilities. This is gaining 
importance as a part of our effort to enhance the effectiveness 
of our irrigation arrangements. We propose to encourage farmers 
to form unions to take care of the canals under categories B, C, 
and D. We have enacted a law to widen and extend the irrigation 
facilities to the fourth region also, under the Perambukulam 
Aliyaru project. 
  20. In 1994/95, we enacted a law to widen the irrigation 
facilities to the fourth region under the Parambikulam-Aliyaru 
scheme. This will provide irrigation facilities to 175,000 acres. 
  21. We propose to provide irrigation facilities in 1994/95 
to 
8,342 acres at a total cost of Rs27 crore, implementing the 
north Pachhayyaru project. Work will start in 1994/95 on the 
Adavi Nainar Koil irrigation project, which will provide 
irrigation facilities to 5,625 acres at a cost of Rs37.69 crore. 
The Periyaru Vaigai link canal service will be completed in 
1994/95, and 5,400 acres will benefit from this service. 
  22. The national water resources management scheme, 
implemented with World Bank aid, will be completed in 1994/95. 
Under this scheme, in 1993/94, we undertook, at the cost of 
Rs7.51 crore, the Thozudoor irrigation arrangement work, and at 
a cost of Rs4.88 crore, the Chittaru irrigation arrangement 
work. Work is about to begin on the Manjaru Dam project, at a 
cost of Rs1.23 crore. Under this project, three subsidiary water 
dam plans for Tirukoilur, Pilavukkal, and Krishnagiri will be 
implemented at a cost of Rs20 crore in 1994/95. 
  23. Irrigation lakes are very important sources of water. We 
intend to continue to implement the scheme to modernize the 
lakes with the aid from the European Economic Group. In 1994/95, 
Rs22 crore will be allocated for this scheme. So far, 
modernization of 157 lakes, which serve 20,700 acres, has begun. 
In 1994/95, 130 lakes, which serve 135 acres, will be modernized. 
  24. In the budget speech last year, I mentioned we would 
bring the former Zamin lakes under the jurisdiction of either 
the Department of Public Works or the Village Panchayat Unions 
on the basis of the acreage they serve. Efforts in this 
direction are being made. On the whole, the administrative 
set-up for about 4,720 former Zamin lakes has to be reorganized. 
The plan to standardize them and reorganize their administrative 
control is expected to be completed in a two-year period. This 
plan will benefit 1.96 lakh acres. 
  25. This administration attaches high priority to the plans 
for intensifying the growth of rural areas. For this plan, in 
1993/94, the allotment was Rs126.30 crore, and in 1994/95 it 
will be Rs160.53 crore. A special self-sufficiency scheme has 
been successfully implemented at a total cost of Rs350 crore. As 
a result of this scheme, the basic service facilities have been 
provided to all the rural areas and settlements. To ensure 
proper maintenance, services, and management under this scheme, 
in 1994/95 a follow-up action will be undertaken. 
  26. To provide units in Tamil Nadu, where the democratic 
process is in various stages of development, with effective 
guidelines, a new legislation incorporating the 73d and 74th 
amendments to the Constitution will be introduced in the current 
session. This will help in examining the financial resources for 
the administrative units, and distribute among them the 
necessary funds for their effective functioning. They have 
already taken adequate steps to strengthen the financial 
resources of these democratic units. In addition to this, we 
have decided to develop a new guideline to strengthen and 
support the financially weak units and to facilitate their 
undertaking maintenance and reform procedures. The government 
will give a grant equal to the cess [as published] amounts. The 
size of the grant to the district decentralized plan has been 
doubled from Rs20 crore to Rs40 crore in 1994/95. Giving these 
funds without any condition, marks another step toward 
encouraging the formulation of a plan of action from the 
beginning. 
  27. The Centrally-funded employment schemes were started on 
1 
October 1993 in 57 Panchayat unions in 12 districts. In 1993/94, 
a sum of Rs3.50 crore was allotted to the scheme. In 1994/95, 
this amount will increase. In the wake of the introduction of 
assured employment plans, the state plan has been allotted Rs10 
crore in 1994/95. This plan will be revised for implementing in 
50 high-growth areas in nine districts. 
  28. We intend to devote special attention to the proper 
maintenance of properties and to give support to the 
municipalities. In our state, we have 98,475 deeply bored pumps, 
36,325 filtered pumps, and 26,462 electric pumps. To help in the 
maintenance of these properties, the budget has allotted Rs564 
crore to the weaker municipalities. Special attention will be 
given to the maintenance of street lighting under the 
jurisdiction of the municipalities. To ensure proper lighting in 
the streets, we have been taking special steps. 
  29. We propose to grant permission to begin a special 
internal financial accounting for the Panchayat unions to ensure 
proper management and maintenance of irrigation lakes under 
their control. This will help in carrying out proper maintenance 
services of 23,761 irrigation lakes under the Panchayat unions. 
<H5>  Cattle Breeding </H5>
  30. We have chosen animal husbandry as an important sector 
for overall growth under the Tamil Nadu agricultural development 
plan for services relating to cattle breeding in 1994/95. Rs6.05 
crore has been allotted for this plan. Efforts should be made to 
develop artificial insemination facilities. Three sperm banks 
will be established in Sivaganga, Cuddalore, and Saidapettai at 
a cost of Rs74 lakhs. The honorable members will be happy to 
learn that the technique of using frozen sperm has been widely 
extended to all the 2,770 artificial insemination centers. The 
cattle breeding station at Echankottai, Orthanadu, and Osur have 
been modernized. Artificial insemination methods as well will be 
greatly improved. 
  31. We have engaged experts in the fields of cattle 
breeding, 
production of fodder of good quality and good-quality seed for 
fodder crops, diagnostics of cattle diseases, and prevention of 
epidemics, etc. As a result, the service from important 
departments will greatly improve. 
  32. Methods of treating and prevention of cattle disease and 
treatment facilities are being improved. Four hundred mobile 
cattle dispensaries will be opened. Ten new veterinary hospitals 
will be opened. The budget has provided Rs5.10 crore for cattle 
maternity and medicines. 
  33. We have achieved rapid advancement in the growth of 
milk-producing farms in 1992/93. The daily consumption of milk 
was 11.83 lakh liters, and it grew to be 14.11 lakh liters in 
1993/94. In order to facilitate extending this "white 
revolution," we will attach great importance to the production 
of high priced items in this sector. At Sholinga Nallur near 
Madras, a new, big milk production farm is under construction. 
It will have a capacity to produce four lakh liters of milk per 
day at a cost of Rs25 crore. The building of the farm will be 
completed in September 1994. In the coming year, two new milk 
freezing units will be started, and the total freezing capacity 
will increase to 3.72 lakh liters per day. 
<H5>  Fishing </H5>
  34. This administration, with the aid of the National 
Cooperative Development Organization, has embarked upon an 
integrated scheme for deep-sea fishing development at a total 
cost of Rs15.88 crore. This scheme will benefit 6,050 fishermen. 
For this scheme, a sum of Rs3.12 crore will be allotted in 
1994/95. This results in benefiting fishermen in Tanjore, 
Ramanthapuram, and V.O. Chidambaranar, Chingelpet-MGR, and 
Kanyakumari districts. 
  35. In 1994/95, with aid from the National Cooperative 
Development Corporation and the European Economic Community, an 
internal fisheries development scheme will be implemented at a 
cost of Rs6.60 crore. This will provide for fish breeding in 
lakes, etc., in the districts of 
Villupuram-Ramaswami-Padayachiar, North Arcot Ambedkar, and 
Thiruvannamalai-Sumbuvarayar. Seventeen crore baby fish are 
required per year. This project will help in increasing the 
supply of fish. 
  36. We have been giving support to the marine life 
protection 
effort undertaken by the private sector. In order to provide 
alternative employment opportunities to 600 fishermen at a cost 
of Rs13.88 crore marine beings development scheme has been 
started on a 150-hectare area in Ramanthapuram district. This 
large scheme is being implemented with the help of the National 
Cooperative Development Corporation and MPEDA [expansion not 
given]. Another aquatic culture project will be started by the 
Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation at Tharuvaikulam in 
V.O. Chidambaranar district at a cost of Rs220 crore. 
  37. This administration has always given high priority to 
the 
welfare of fishermen. In 1993/94, at a cost of Rs5 crore, 2,000 
permanent houses were constructed for free allotment to the 
fishermen. In 1994/95, another 2,000 will be constructed for 
free allotment. In 1993/94, those periods during which there was 
no income for fishermen, the state government paid Rs270 per 
month for up to four months to compensate for the loss of their 
income. One hundred thirty-one thousand fishermen received this 
compensation, and it cost us Rs13.20 crore. This serves as a 
great security scheme for the fishermen. 
<H5>  Forestry </H5>
  38. We have to save our current acreage of forests and also 
develop and extend the forest area. In the current year, a 
scheme to extend forests up to 136 lakh acres is being 
implemented. In 1994/95 we propose to bring under the scheme 1.5 
lakh acres. For development of forestry the total of Rs46.05 
crore has been allotted in the budget for 1994/95. 
  39. The community's scheme to develop the forest, which is 
implemented with the aid from the Swedish International 
Development Agency (SIDA), will be completing its second phase 
in 1994/95. We have budgeted Rs25-35 crore for this. An area of 
7.5 lakh acreas has been brought under the community forest 
development scheme. We have evolved a forestry plan interfaced 
with villages for which we hope to get aid from SIDA. This 
scheme is expected to cost Rs265 crore. 
  40. We have also formulated a new project, namely the Tamil 
Nadu Forestry Project, which will cost Rs300 crore. This has 
been submitted to the World Bank for aid. This is meant to 
preserve biodiversity and animals in the forests. This project 
is to interface 1.83 lakh hectare forest area, and 800 villages. 
  41. Under the agricultural development scheme we have 
provided Rs9 crore for forestry project services in 1994/95. 
  42. A special forestry project will be implemented under the 
mountainous region development scheme in the Nellagiri district. 
In 1994/95 an area of 1,375 acres will be brought under this 
scheme at a cost of Rs3 crore. We will undertake in 1994/95 
forestry services and soil protection services on 6,250 acres on 
the slopes of the Western Ghats at a cost of Rs2.48 crore. 
  43. The honorable members are well aware of the Tamil Nadu 
Tea Plantation Corporation's plan for tea cultivation on 7,500 
acres. Under this plan two more new tea factories are being set 
up at a cost of Rs6.00 crore. In 1994/95, an area of 1,500 acres 
will be brought under the scheme, costing Rs1.20 crore. We have 
secured aid from the National Agricultural and Rural Development 
Bank. 
  44. The Tamil Nadu Plantation Corporation has started a 
scheme to increase the planting area for trees that give paper 
pulp. In 1994/95 this kind of tree will be planted on an area of 
1,200 acres. In addition, the cashew nut cultivation improvement 
scheme will be implemented on an area of 18,000 acres. 
  45. We have made special effort to preserve and protect our 
forest wealth. In 1993/94 a sum of Rs25 lakhs was allotted for 
carrying out various steps for the protection of our forests. In 
1994/95 also an equivalent amount will be set aside for this 
purpose. We intend to develop the State Forestry Research 
Corporation at Vandalur. For this institution the budget has 
provided Rs10 lakhs. 
<H5>  Industries </H5>
  46. The honorable members of this Assembly may recall that 
our honorable chief minister formulated a unique industrial 
policy for our state in 1992. This policy has been the basis of 
our industrial growth. The Central Government has now pointed 
out that as a part of the liberalizing effort the state 
government should carry out more reforms. We have identified the 
important sectors for necessary action. We have succeeded in 
creating a good industrial climate in our state. Tamil Nadu is 
the one state in the country that has provided the best basic 
facilities for industrial growth, so says the Center for 
Industrial Economic Research. Tamil Nadu is the one state that 
does not have any electric power cut. We are determined to 
maintain this progress. Whenever any kind of approval for 
companies is needed, they can go to a single-window clearance. 
We have already put forth necessary legislation for this 
arrangement. 
  47. Madras Industrial Park, developed under a commercial 
arrangement with Singapore, will soon be taken up for 
implementation. On the completion of this plan, it will cover 
8,000 acres. This will attract $1,000 as a new investment. We 
have selected a small list of entrepreneurs for this plan, and 
this group is expected to start work very soon. We have asked 
the Central Government to give us quick approval for this scheme. 
  48. We have to consider industrial growth at a national 
level. There is a great need for giving an impetus to increase 
the capital investment both in the public and private sectors. 
We hope the Indian industry will respond to the challenge of 
competition and ensure faster growth. 
  49. The southern fuel grid is an important plan. This will 
be 
a great help in promoting industrial growth in the southern 
region, in particular Tamil Nadu. The Honorable Chief Minister 
revolutionary leader Dr. J. Jayalalitha took the first step, 
hinting that the southern states will be ready to invest capital 
for this scheme just as the Konkan railway plan. For this scheme 
arrangements have been made to bring fuel from Oman. Now it is 
doubtful if gas will be available from Oman. We will emphasize 
that this grid scheme should be based on getting the gas that 
has been burning in Bombay High without any use to anybody. 
Later we can also add to it gas when it comes from Oman. To 
ensure that this plan is implemented immediately, the Central 
Government should take immediate action. 
  50. The budget has provided Rs10 crore for capital 
investment 
for the Tamil Nadu Basic Industrial Improvement Corporation 
(TACID). This will establish development centers with a view 
toward speeding up progress, in Perunthurai in Periyar District, 
Gangaikondan in Tizunelveli-Kattabomman District, and Panangudi 
in Nagapattinam-Quaide-Millath District. This corporation has 
taken charge of implementing special development centers at 
Nilakottai in Dindukkal-Anna District and another in Dharmapuri 
District. To speed up the industrial growth, we propose to 
establish a new development center on a large scale on an area 
of 1,000 acres near Madras. At Thiruppur, with the aid from ILFS 
[expansion not given], the Industrial Infrastructure Development 
Corporation will implement the scheme to improve the basic 
necessities for industries. It is expected that the scheme will 
cost Rs550 crore. 
  51. Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd has a big scheme to 
double its present annual production of 90,000 tons to 1.80 lakh 
tons. It has obtained $75 million from the World Bank. The 
budget has provided Rs200 crore. This scheme has been hailed as 
an exemplary unit that operates using agricultural waste, 
without causing any harm to the environment. It is unfortunate 
that the Central Government, in its current budget, has 
withdrawn its exemption from excise duty granted earlier to this 
company. We appeal to the Central Government to grant this 
company the exemption from excise duty. This company has now 
undertaken a big expansion project and deserves the exemption. 
  52. We have been consistently taking steps to create a 
climate for quick growth of small-scale industries in our state. 
As per the new economic policy, the growth of small-scale 
industries will certainly increase job opportunities. These 
industries should be getting their funds from the Department of 
Public Works, etc. Our efforts to get their dues paid in time 
have proved to be helpful. We received 115 complaints, out of 
which 111 were looked into and an adequate response was given. 
The rate of low pressure electricity allowed under the rules was 
raised from 130 to 150. This has been welcomed by the industry. 
The industrial entrepreneurs development scheme will be 
implemented in the coming year, and this will facilitate 
training 10,000 women. In 1994/95 "Citgo" will construct 200 
industrial sheds. Fifty improved sites will be allotted for this 
purpose. It is indeed an achievement that 156 industrial sheds 
were erected at Mudaliyar Palayam, near Tiruppur. Citgo has been 
working on building 100 industrial sheds for those involved in 
the manufacture of knitted dresses. A similar industrial estate 
is being built at Palladam in Coimbatore District. Citgo has 
undertaken the work of erecting Revolutionary Leader Dr. J. 
Jayalalitha Electron Research Center at Guindy. This will 
provide directly and indirectly employment opportunities to 
8,000 persons. A new leather industrial estate will be 
established near Madras, with technological help from the United 
Nations Development Program. 
  53. Tamil Nadu has developed plans to attract industrial 
entrepreneurs to start industrial projects in Tamil Nadu. To 
make this state an ideal place for starting industries, the 
state government has been working very hard. The honorable 
members of this Assembly may recall my earlier statement that we 
had decided to put forth an amendment to treat the deferred 
sales tax as having been remitted to fulfill the object of 
Section 43B of the Sales Tax Act. We discussed this with the 
Center, and on the basis of their clarification, we have issued 
an order in regard to the amendment. This will facilitate 
industries' getting all the needed benefits. I have no doubt 
that the industries will welcome our action. The method of 
deferred sales tax after a review by the Industrial Financial 
Aid Bureau will be made applicable to the weaker industrial 
units. The industries that in their beginning stages meet with 
difficulties can be helped by this action. It is our aim to make 
this concession applicable to all the weaker industries in 
accordance with the Weaker Industries Act. With a view toward 
increasing exports, we have decided to refund within a 
three-year period sales tax collected on purchases made by the 
Madras export trade activity region and their units, wholly 
involved in exports. Within the Madras export area, sales 
transactions between the various industrial sections do take 
place. But if the final sales are not inside the country, they 
would be exempt from the sales tax. 
<H5>  Electricity </H5>
  54. The highlight of the power situation in Tamil Nadu has 
been the absence of any demand for energy cuts. The Tuticorin 
thermal electric station has won continuously for six years the 
national productivity award and is poised to win again. In 
1992/93 it reached 76 percent of productivity. The Mettur 
thermal power station has also achieved 6.42 percent of 
productivity and is poised to win the award. We have been 
monitoring carefully the supply of coal to these stations in 
order to keep up effective functioning. 
  55. For generation of electricity the plan allotted Rs538.50 
crore for 1993/94 and Rs625 crore for 1994/95. The government 
has been giving great attention to the increase of power output. 
The first stage of the North Madras Thermal power project with 
three units of 210 Mw will be completed in 1994/95 and one unit 
will be synchronised with the grid. The work on the Basin Bridge 
gas-based power project with four units of 30 Mw has commenced. 
This project, aided by Japan's Economic Cooperative Fund will 
cost Rs367 crore. We expect this to be completed in 1995. New 
windmill units will be set up with 20 megawatts [Mw] of power. 
  56. For the first time in the whole country we have built 
two 
electric power stations in two cooperative sugar factories, one 
at Sethiathoppu and one at Cheyyarru, and they are performing 
successfully. At three more sugar cooperative factories, joint 
electric power stations in Mayiladuthurai, Kallakurichi, and 
Aroor will be built at a cost of Rs18 crore. On the whole, we 
can expect to build joint power stations at a total of 250 Mw 
capacity. 
  57. In planning to meet the demands of the state's power 
supply, we have to take into account the long-term power needs 
of the state. We have made progress in our efforts to meet power 
supply needs on a long-term basis. The Jayamkondan integrated 
lignite mining and power generation project, which is to 
generate 1,500 Mw, with an investment of Rs7,500 crore, will be 
taken up in the associate sector. This project's financial 
estimation is currently underway. We expect this project to 
begin to function very soon. The Central Government has granted 
us permission to start an electric power station under the 
private sector. We are also considering the proposal to start 
under the private sector two power stations with 500 Mw at North 
Madras and Tuticorin. At Cuddalore we intend to start a thermal 
power project with an initial capacity of 1,000 Mw and a final 
capacity of 2,000 Mw. For the power station to be established at 
Cuddalore we may have to bring in coal by sea for its 
functioning. We have to implement this project along with the 
Cuddalore harbor development scheme. The honorable chief 
minister requested the visiting Japanese high-level economic 
committee to consider investing in a coastal thermal energy 
project based on using imported coal. As the Central Government 
reduced the excise duty on imported coal, this project came to 
be considered. The honorable members of this Assembly will 
appreciate our great efforts to ensure a future without power 
cuts. 
  58. In Tamil Nadu, the delay caused by the Central 
Government 
in implementing its various energy projects has caused us grave 
concern. If negotiations do take place about digging the third 
mine and its allied power project, we would definitely welcome 
it. We have already informed the Center of our desire to invest 
and participate in the construction of the Koodankulam atomic 
electric power plant. We hope that the Central Government will 
make a decision about the scheme very soon. We have informed the 
Central Government of our desire to invest in the Kaiga atomic 
electric power station in the state of Karnataka. We trust the 
Central Government will take necessary action to invest in 
electric power generation schemes in Tamil Nadu. 
  59. We have taken stern action to reduce the loss in the 
process of supply and distribution of power. This loss in 
electrical wires has been reduced to 17.5 percent. The national 
average is 32 percent. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board has been 
implementing a scheme to reduce this loss below 13 percent. 
  60. The honorable members of this Assembly are aware of our 
ardent efforts to promote and develop unconventional energy 
sources. As an important step in this effort, we signed an 
agreement with an American firm Messers: the Solar Power 
Corporation [as published], to produce energy from the heat of 
the ocean water. The 100-Mw project is to cost Rs800 crore. When 
we succeed in this effort, this will prove to be a major 
initiative to harness and utilize a perennial energy source. An 
integrated Panchayat energy project in 1994/95, at a cost of 
Rs30 lakhs will be implemented in 17 Panchayat union areas. The 
efforts to use solar power in heating water will be encouraged. 
  61. The honorable members are well aware of the severe 
financial difficulties the Tamil Electricity Board has to face. 
Even after the electric consumption charges were revised on 1 
March 1994, the deficit still remained at Rs300 crore. This 
indeed is a very serious condition. Even after the state 
government's aid of Rs350 crore, the situation did not improve. 
The government granted to the Electricity Board a remission of 
Rs100 crore in an interest-due account. The Center has been 
insisting that power supplied for agricultural pump sets should 
be charged 50 paise per unit. We understand from an audit that 
the energy used for pump sets has been increased by 16 percent. 
This is higher than the energy used by the industries as a 
whole. Therefore, it reveals that a substantial amount of 
electricity is being wasted or misused. As the state government 
itself is in financial trouble, it cannot increase its cash 
support to the Board. So, we have to face this difficult 
situation. 
<H5>  Road Transport </H5>
  62. The outlay for roads in 1993/94 was Rs110 crore and in 
1994/95 it is Rs120.94 crore. 
  63. The honorable members of the Assembly may recall that 
for 
the first time the state government has allotted for the 
maintenance of roads more than what the Ninth Finance Commission 
had prescribed as a guideline. We have raised the guideline 
amounts to the current level of prices. I am happy to say as per 
the enhanced guidelines the budget has provided for the 
maintenance of roads. For the maintenance of the road system, 
the 1993/94 budget provision was Rs145 crore, whereas in 1994/95 
it has been raised to Rs183 crore. 
  64. In 1991/92 we undertook a special road repair project, 
at 
a cost of Rs150 crore, to be completed in a five-year period, 
including the current year. We have so far allotted Rs95 crore. 
Under the scheme, we have carried out repairs on roads totaling 
6,430 km in length. In 1994/95 we will have Rs41.46 crore for 
this project. We propose that in 1994/95, the special road 
repair project cover roads of 3,500 km. This includes carrying 
out repairs on roads near the industrial sectors in 1994/95 at a 
cost of Rs5 crore, covering 4,300 km. As desired by the 
honorable members, we have given top priority in the budget for 
the road repair work, following the recent floods and storms. We 
hope we will be able to undertake intensive repair service as 
well as special road repair services within the budget allotment. 
  65. In the last budget speech I mentioned that a "bridges 
for 
the people" scheme will be implemented. As per the scheme, one 
bridge will be built for each legislative constituency. In 
1993/94 we began work on 208 bridges at a cost of Rs0.42 crore. 
The remaining 26 bridges will be constructed in municipal and 
corporation areas at a cost of Rs1.30 crore. In 1994/95, 234 
bridges covering all the legislative constituencies will be 
completed. 
  66. We intend to implement a new scheme with an outlay of 
Rs880 crore, aided by the World Bank. Under the scheme two-way 
traffic facilities covering a distance of 528 km will be 
constructed. Repair work on two-way traffic roads of 1,293 km 
length will be undertaken, and dilapidated bridges will also be 
reconstructed. As a result of this scheme, the quality of our 
roads will greatly improve. The World Bank has shown an interest 
in the scheme. We hope to get its approval very soon. 
  67. There has been heavy traffic congestion on such highways 
as Nagapattinam-Koodalur road, Coimbatore-Dindukkal road, and 
Perumbur-Manamadurai road. In order to reduce the traffic 
congestion, we propose to build four-lane transport facilities 
on such highways with help from the Infrastructure Financial 
Services, stationed in Bombay. This effort will greatly improve 
the quality of the highways in the state. 
  68. We have given great importance to the task of rural 
roads 
development. In 1994/95 all-weather rural roads for all areas 
with 1,000 residents according to the 1981 census will be 
provided with adequate road facilities. The budget has provided 
Rs18.50 crore for this scheme. As a part of the Tamil Nadu 
agricultural development scheme, 19 bazaar centers will have 
good road facilities at a cost of Rs45.28 crore. In 1994/95, 
Rs10 crore will be allotted for this scheme. This will help in 
constructing good roads 800 km in length. The bus route 
development scheme will continue to be implemented. A sum of 
Rs13 crore has been allotted in the 1994/95 budget. Under this 
scheme 500 km-long roads will be repaired and improved. Under 
the sugarcane cess [as published] fund scheme, Rs5 crore has 
been allotted for road development in 1994/95. 
  69. Traffic congestion in urban areas also has to be 
reduced. 
To achieve this goal, we have to embark upon a big-scale road 
development effort. Under the Tamil Nadu urban development 
scheme, as a part of TRAMP [expansion not given], we have 
undertaken 37 projects in 10 important cities at a cost of 
Rs144.89 crore. The 1994/95 budget has allotted Rs27 crore for 
this effort. 
  70. The eastern coastal road between Madras and Cuddalore 
has 
been meeting with many problems relating to technology, 
environment, and complications in agreements, etc. We are trying 
to solve these difficulties. We hope to see good progress in 
this project. For the development of this road, in 1994/95, a 
sum of Rs15 crore has been allocated. 
  71. The honorable members of this Assembly are aware of the 
difficult situation that our state bus transport system has to 
face in the wake of the revised prices for diesel fuel effective 
the first of February. As a result, the bus transport system has 
to take a loss to the tune of Rs60 crore in 1994/95. So we have 
to set this right in the course of time. We find it very 
difficult to cope with the situation caused by frequent rises in 
the price of diesel fuel. When these transport corporations 
strive hard to serve the people, the capacity of these 
corporations is affected. They could not acquire an adequate 
number of buses to replace the old ones or open up new services. 
Therefore, we may have to pave the way for a rise in bus fares. 
  72. We are evolving a program of action in this area, 
bearing 
in mind the financial guideline limitation. We are seeking aid 
from the United Nations Development Program. 
  73. With regard to the 17 industries that produce an 
enormous 
amount of dust, the responsibility for supervising the 
environment has been entrusted to the Tamil Nadu Dust Control 
Board. Identification of 119 industrial sections that produce a 
vast amount of dust was completed. Progress has been made in 
identifying sections that do not give out any dirt. At Manalur, 
a public facility will come into being to remove industrial 
waste likely to cause danger to sanitation. An emergency station 
to give aid is under construction at Manali. 
  74. We have been taking a series of vigorous steps to 
prevent 
pollution by leather tanning factories. Twenty-three general 
waste product purification stations are under construction. In 
1994 six will be completed. 
  75. In the cloth production industry, the dyeing section is 
the one that gives out a large amount of dust and dirt. To 
prevent the dirt, 16 general waste purification stations will be 
opened. 
  76. We are planning to conduct comprehensive research about 
the state's industrial waste regulatory plan, with help from the 
Asian Development Bank. On the basis of this report, which is 
due in April 1994, a detailed scheme will be prepared. 
  77. The honorable members of the Assembly are well aware of 
our efforts to prevent pollution in the Cauvery River. A 
comprehensive scheme that will cost Rs332 crore has been sent to 
Japan's Foreign Economic Cooperative Institute in order to 
secure its help. In the meanwhile we will undertake under the 
National River Development Plan an initial services project, at 
a cost of Rs2 crore. We will take steps to check the quality of 
water in the big rivers and lakes. 
  78. The honorable chief minister, the revolutionary leader 
Dr. Jayalalitha has ordered that an integrated coastal area 
development scheme should be started. To formulate this scheme, 
we have sought the expert help from the world renowned 
specialist Dr. M.S. Swaminathan. We will send the details of the 
scheme for external assistance. 
  79. We have formulated a scheme to clean up the waterways in 
big cities and prevent contamination from them and water 
cleaning services in greater Madras. Germany is examining the 
scheme for giving us aid. Many institutions undertook detailed 
studies. This also included removal of mud and mire. This is an 
appropriate time to make great efforts to clean waterways and 
restore them to their original condition. 
  80. We have developed a scheme to prevent our coastal areas 
from eroding, and we hope to get funds from the World 
Environment Development Fund. The scheme, which is estimated to 
cost Rs50 crore, will help in carrying out efforts to protect 
the coastal areas of Madras and Kanyakumari District, on a 
permanent basis. 
<H5>  Urban Development </H5>
  81. In Tamil Nadu 34.15 percent of the total state 
population 
lives in urban areas. Based on the population figures, the urban 
areas occupy third place, and to make an effort to raise their 
standard of living, we need enormously large sums of money. This 
calls for huge capital outlays from all sources including 
private sectors. 
  82. The Tamil Nadu urban area development plan, which is 
being implemented now with aid from the World Bank, is one of 
the biggest implemented so far. The plan is expected to have a 
total allotment of Rs150 crore in 1994/95. The plan includes 
many important sectors--development of housing sites, hutments, 
increase in transport facilities, and financial aid for urban 
development. 
  83. The one important advantage of implementing the Tamil 
Nadu urban development scheme is that we get new financial 
assistance for providing the basic facilities in urban areas. At 
the same time, with the object of giving financial aid to 
projects to provide basic necessities, we have organized a 
municipal development fund scheme. Municipalities have had 
problems paying back the loans from the insurance corporation, 
etc., resulting in the state government's taking up the 
responsibility for the loans. Taking all these into 
consideration, we have to examine the possibility of starting an 
infrastructure for giving help. We are appointing a committee to 
examine the problems involved and to submit a report of 
recommendations. 
  84. We propose to implement an integrated program for the 
urban poor. There have been a number of schemes to improve the 
plight of the poor, to raise their standard of living and their 
economic well-being. This integrated program will be helpful in 
bringing them together in a well-coordinated approach to deal 
with the problems effectively. In 1994/95 under this scheme, 1 
lakh poor families will benefit. 
<H5>  Madras Metropolitan Development </H5>
  85. The honorable members of this Assembly are aware that we 
started "Madras Vision 2000," with a view toward making the city 
a first-rate city in the whole country. For this, we will 
develop a scheme for capital investment which will include 
Madras Vision 2000. 
  86. To complete the implementation of this scheme before the 
year 2000, we give below the list of our targets with their 
outlays: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Target Details                        |Outlays in Crore                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Water distribution--removal of draina-|Rs1,600                               | 
|ge                                    |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Distribution of electric energy and p-|Rs650                                 | 
|rovision of additional power during h-|                                      | 
|eavy load period                      |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Development of road structure to remo-|Rs300                                 | 
|ve bottlenecks to relieve traffic con-|                                      | 
|gestion and setting up of a new trans-|                                      | 
|port administration                   |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Development of corporation area's wat-|Rs400                                 | 
|erways and environmental clearing     |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Rain water drainage                   |Rs75                                  | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Development of housing sites          |Rs525                                 | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Development of corporation's transpor-|Rs300                                 | 
|t system                              |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Other development schemes             |Rs150                                 | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Total                                 |Rs4,000                               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  87. Thus the Madras Vision 2000 plan envisions an investment 
of Rs4,000 crore. This will be implemented with the plan to make 
Madras beautiful, too, in the year 2000. Madras should be the 
place to attract new commercial centers and corporate office 
complexes, and it is our objective to make sure that the city's 
lifestyle is sophisticated with all amenities and make Madras 
attractive and powerful to be the financial capital of India. 
  88. The Metropolitan Infrastructure Development Corporation 
will be established, and the budget provides for this a sum of 
Rs15 crore as a share of the capital. Inclusive of the Central 
Government's share, the total capital will be Rs60 crore. This 
is a large sum of financial aid for fulfilling the needs for the 
basic necessities in the greater Madras corporation area. 
  89. We have started a program to generate electricity by 
using the waste products of the corporation area. This 8-Mw 
power station will be built at Perungudi, near Madras at a cost 
of Rs16 crore. This station will use balls, made from the waste 
material, for generating power. TICO [as published] firm 
undertakes this program under the joint sector. This is a big 
attempt to connect the waste materials with power generation. 
<H5>  Housing Facility </H5>
  90. "Shelter for all" is the policy of this government. The 
construction of houses helps in creating a substantial number of 
job opportunities and, as in Mexico and other countries, this is 
an important economic service. Therefore, we have given high 
priority to housing projects. 
  91. We have started an effort to survey the number of houses 
needed and the number of houses already distributed. On the 
basis of this survey we have to consider a long-term plan to 
provide for increasing the number of shelters and improved 
housing plots. Houses and hutments built by government 
institutions like the Housing Board and Hutments Board will be 
distributed in a better and improved manner. With a view to 
speeding up the improved house plots in urban and rural areas, 
we propose to strengthen the operative movement in the state and 
give it our wholehearted support. I have to mention, at this 
time, that the financial aid for housing in general and in 
particular regarding refinancing the loans from the National 
Housing Bank is not satisfactory. The Central Government should 
reform the process of granting loans and ensure that adequate 
amounts are there for such loans through commercial banking 
sources. In 1994/95, we will endeavor to provide housing 
facilities to 1.25 lakh families. 
  92. The Tamil Nadu Housing Board will build 20,700 shelters 
at a cost of Rs200 crore in 1994/95. The Tamil Nadu Hutment 
Board will build 750 new shelters in 1994/95, besides 
undertaking hutment area improvement for 10,000 families. At a 
cost of Rs1.5 crore, the "Shelter for Homeless" project will 
build 900 rows of shelters. Under the shelter for pavement 
dwellers plan, 2,275 shelters will be constructed. In 1994/95 
the Hutments Board will undertake four urban areas improvement 
projects. In 1994/95 urban housing cooperative societies will 
give financial support to build 10,000 shelters. 
  93. In the coming year, to enable us to implement big 
schemes 
for building houses, we trust that the rural housing projects 
will be reformed on a sound basis. For this we have to collect 
the loan installments in time. We will improve the efficiency of 
the rural housing projects through 165 taluk cooperative 
societies. The 1994/95 budget provides Rs5 crore for building 
30,000 shelters. We will continue to implement SUPRA [expansion 
not given], a novel scheme to erect 10,000 shelters in rural 
areas. This scheme will enhance the quality of rural housing 
facilities. 
  94. We propose to strengthen the services rendered by the 
Land Development Banks to lend money in a big way for housing 
projects. We have secured the necessary permission for the 
effort. In 1994/95 we propose to implement through the land 
cooperatives a scheme to grant loans to the housing effort. 
  95. The honorable members of this Assembly are well aware of 
our special projects for building houses for those who were 
affected by the recent floods and storms. Under the scheme, 
18,000 houses will be built. A sum of Rs8.10 crore has been 
allotted for this scheme. We are considering granting additional 
financial assistance to build houses in the wake of the recent 
reports of loss caused by the recent floods. We will implement 
this effort, after obtaining the necessary permission from the 
Central Government. 
<H5>  Education </H5>
  96. For education, the budget provides a total of Rs2,002.46 
crore. Under the category of revenue expenditure, the only big 
department that takes 22.04 percent of expense is the department 
of education. 
  97. The honorable chief minister, revolutionary leader Dr. 
J. 
Jayalalitha recently in February 1994 delivered a 
thought-provoking address at the Chief Ministers' Conference on 
the high priority services that have to be rendered throughout 
the state. She declared that we will make an attempt by the year 
1998 to achieve the target of "education for all" in Tamil Nadu. 
A state-wide effort will be undertaken to see that all children 
are admitted into the schools and also in particular, to make 
sure that they continue schooling until 14. To achieve the 
target, priority will be given to finding necessary financial 
resources. 
  98. To improve the standard of primary education we have 
identified the following steps that should be taken: 

  -  A pre-school education scheme will be implemented all over 
the state beginning in 1994/95. 
  -  During the summer of 1994 a special campaign will be 
undertaken 
to ensure that all children above five are enrolled in the 
schools. 
  -  During the summer holidays and even after the opening of the 
schools, special efforts will be made to see if children are 
continuing in the school. 
  -  The system of educated volunteers teaching those children of 
age six to 14 who had not been to any school will be 
strengthened and made more effective. 
  -  Efforts will be made to improve the quality of the school 
syllabus and training programs for teachers, the system of 
incentives to teachers, improving the minimum educational 
standards, and the participation of parents in the school 
activities. 
  -  On the basis of the recent research survey on infrastructure 
for schools, systems will have to be improved. 

  We will definitely work to implement the plan of action, so 
that the entire elementary education system in our state will be 
of high quality. 
  99. The honorable members of the Assembly are aware that we 
submitted to the World Bank a comprehensive report on a plan to 
upgrade the elementary school system, which is to cost Rs1,200 
crore. The plan is still with the Central Government. We 
requested that the Center send it to the World Bank. Meanwhile, 
we are thinking of a plan for girls' education for which we will 
seek aid from the World Bank. In the districts where the rate of 
girls' education is far below the national average, this scheme 
will help in improving it. The district primary education 
project will be launched in Dharmapuri, 
Thiruvannamalai-Sambuvarayar, Villupuram-Ramaswami Padayachiar, 
and South Arcot Vallallar districts. For a five-year period, the 
allotment for this project will be Rs1,000 crore. This will 
facilitate a large number of girls being enrolled in the primary 
school and encourage them to continue their education. This will 
strengthen the primary school system in Tamil Nadu. 
  100. The honorable members of this Assembly will be pleased 
to know that in the coming year 766 new primary school buildings 
will be completed. After this each school will have at least one 
permanent building of its own. In the coming year we intend to 
build 750 more schools. This will ensure better infrastructure 
for the primary school system. We are asking the Panchayat 
Unions to bring under internal accounting section III the system 
in order to ensure proper maintenance of primary school 
buildings. 
  101. In my last budget speech, I mentioned that new 
legislation will be brought to compel children to go to school 
and continue their education. This announcement was widely 
welcomed. We had discussed extensively the rules and regulations 
of this act. This will be in force throughout the state. It is 
our aim to inculcate in the mind of the parents that it is their 
sacred duty to send their kids to schools. Instead of punishing 
them for not sending their kids to schools, we thought it better 
to encourage them to do it on their own and make them abide by 
social compulsion. The rules and regulations will be implemented 
without any penal provisions. We have the primary school 
facilities to attract the students and educate them; we can 
surely succeed in this task. We will introduce legislation for 
primary education in this session of the Assembly. The honorable 
members of the Assembly will certainly appreciate the novel 
efforts taken for this legislation to bring about compulsory 
education. This, indeed, will be a great gift to our future 
generations. 
  102. The "literacy for all" scheme has been extended to all 
the districts except Madras. For this campaign, a sum of Rs58.26 
crore has been allotted. This will benefit 83.08 million people. 
The campaign is in its last phase, yet such campaigns are the 
ones that cannot end soon. It has to be on a continuous basis. 
Only then will we be able to reap the benefit of our efforts. We 
have to keep a watch over the situation and see that the initial 
enthusiasm of the new literates does not slow down or fade away, 
and we must provide them with opportunities to use their newly 
acquired skills on a continuing basis. We will make sure that we 
will continue this effort. 
  103. We have taken steps to improve the quality of education 
in high schools and higher secondary schools in the state. In 
the coming year we propose to upgrade 25 middle schools to high 
schools and 12 high schools to higher secondary schools. The 
honorable members will be happy to note that the new school 
reform plan that was implemented last year won unprecedented 
support from the public. We have received for this plan in kind 
donations to the tune of Rs76 crores. Just like this effort the 
newly introduced patron of the school project gave us donations 
of Rs4.1 crore. The great support we received from the public 
will greatly help in improving the middle-level school system in 
Tamil Nadu. 
  104. We have decided that the money we received from the 
public should be properly utilized. To construct buildings for 
high school and higher secondary schools, the budget has 
provided Rs75 lakhs. The funds that come from local areas will 
also be utilized for these buildings by collecting donations 
from the public and contributions from the institutions like 
Jawahar employment projects. We propose to have a building 
construction plan in 1994 at a cost of Rs4 crore. Basic 
facilities for the middle-level schools will substantially 
increase further. The syllabus of 14 schools has been designed 
to teach mathematics as well as facilitate intellectual 
development. 
  105. The honorable members of this Assembly are aware of the 
educated volunteer service system started last year. I am very 
happy to announce that there has been great support for the 
scheme, and 15 lakh youngsters have come forward to do the work. 
The work includes enlightening the masses on the importance of 
education, the evil effects of drinking alcohol, etc. This will 
be a great step in the social reform effort. The budget has 
provided Rs13.8 crore. 
  106. The honorable chief minister, the revolutionary leader, 
Dr. J. Jayalalitha, has been giving high priority for the 
development of sports. Within the shortest time, namely seven 
and one-half years, the construction of Jawaharlal stadium was 
completed, and international competitions and 33 national sports 
competitions took place at this stadium. The sports lovers of 
the state will feel happy about the chief minister's efforts for 
the development of sports. In 1995, the next Asian games 
competitions will take place at this stadium. We propose to 
conduct the games in a grand manner, and we have proposed to 
have a scheme costing Rs20 crore. This will help in improving 
the facilities for the competition on the stadium grounds. We 
have also decided to encourage the youngsters in rural areas to 
take training, similar to the Chinese method. Under the scheme, 
388 sports centers, at cost of Rs4 crore, will be constructed. 
For every Panchayat union, there will be a sports center. Each 
center will be set up with an appropriate sports facility hall 
and a 400-meter race track and also a coach. This is a bold 
attempt to attract youngsters to become trained in the skills 
and encourage them to become good sportsmen. In the coming year, 
a sports hostel will be built for well-known sportsmen. In 
1994/95, stadiums will be constructed in Ramanathapuram, 
Sivagangai, and Pudukkottai districts. 
  107. A state committee on higher education was inaugurated 
by 
the honorable chief minister in March 1993. The committee will 
develop schemes for improving education in universities and 
colleges. This will help the universities to upgrade their 
facilities. In 1994/95, a new women's college at Ramanathapuram 
with the budget provision of Rs35.57 lakhs will be started. With 
aid from the World Bank, an education project for technology 
experts is being implemented in the current year. This plan will 
have an allotment of Rs9 crore. This will also help in improving 
55 technology schools. 
  108. At a meeting of the state planning committee with the 
honorable chief minister in the chair, a decision was made to 
integrate the existing intellectual institutions in the 
Tharamani area and to organize an intellectual city at Madras. 
This will promote and foster contacts between the various 
branches of knowledge, facilitate the exchange of ideas, 
establish intellectual contacts with world organizations, and 
organize on a grand-scale intellectual seminars. This is the 
idea behind establishing the intellectual city at Madras. The 
budget has provided Rs1 crore for this project. 
<H5>  Development of Tamil Language and Culture </H5>
  109. The honorable members of this Assembly will be happy to 
learn that the Eighth World Tamil Conference will be held at 
Tanjore on a grand scale. This will commence on 1 January 1995. 
Tamil scholars from various parts of the world will participate 
in the conference. Plans are under way to highlight the glorious 
traditions of the Tamils at this world meeting. Rs1 crore has 
been allotted for the conference. 
  110. As a part of our efforts to preserve our ancient 
culture 
and tradition, the Tanjore Palace building will be renovated at 
a cost of Rs61.90 lakhs and Thirumalai Naikkavn Mahal at 
Maduraim at a cost of Rs79.80 lakhs. The honorable members of 
this Assembly will be happy to note that a substantial amount 
has been allotted to protect and preserve these two great 
monuments. 
  111. We propose to undertake an extensive research project 
to 
organize a new Buddhist cultural wing to be added to the Fine 
Arts Museum in Madras. The new wing will have very ancient, 
priceless relics belonging to the Amaravathi period. On the 
basis of the research, the new art wing will be established. 
  112. To encourage our dramatic groups to organize stage 
performances, we have given them a 50-percent discount on bus 
fares when they travel by bus. 
  113. In order to make all our children learn the Tamil 
language, we have made it compulsory that Tamil be taught at all 
nursery schools in the state. 
  114. We propose to prove with facts and figures how our 
ancient Tamils were engaged in overseas trade and commerce; a 
preliminary report is underway with the help of the National 
Oceanographic Institute. The third stage of this work will be 
completed at a cost of Rs15 lakhs. Later a more detailed 
estimate of expenditure for the project as a whole will be 
prepared. 
<H5>  Family Health Welfare </H5>
  115. For 1994/95, the budget has provided for health and 
family welfare a sum of Rs643.15 crore. The allotment for drugs 
and medicines has been increased from the current Rs75 crore to 
Rs88 crore in the coming year. The budget allocation for basic 
family health welfare in 1993/94 was Rs174.21 crore and in 
1994/95 it is Rs198.95 crore. The Revolutionary Leader Dr. J. 
Jayalalitha mother-child welfare camps have proved to be a 
success. So far 1,315 camps have been conducted and 2.11 million 
women and 2.9 million children have benefited from these camps. 
Having met with success in the camps project, we propose to 
start in June 1994 a project to cover school children of 5-15 
years of age for medical examinations for good health under the 
Revolutionary Leader Dr. Jayalalitha school health camps scheme. 
With aid from the World Bank and UN Children's Emergency Fund, 
we are implementing a scheme to protect babies and promote 
protective motherhood. So far it has worked in eight districts. 
The scheme will be extended to seven more districts in 1994/95, 
namely Madras, Chingelpet-MGR, Coimbatore, Periyar, Nilagiri, 
Tanjore, and Nagapatinam-Quaide Millath. As a part of the effort 
to provide both mothers and babies with hygienic protection with 
an outlay of Rs10.26 crore, the Indian Census V has been 
extended to 15 municipal jurisdictions. This plan allows for the 
provision to the urban poor an integrated service including 
mother and baby protection and also other welfare services. 
  116. In this state there are 1,417 health clinics, which 
serve remote corners and rural areas with maternity health 
services. The members of this Assembly will be happy to know 
that 120 primary clinics will have their own buildings in 
1994/95. The budget has provided Rs7.21 crore for this effort. 
Twelve dispensaries will be built for health centers. 
  117. The main objective of the government is to give high 
priority to hygienic protection to mothers and babies. We have 
decided to implement a special project in the coming year, to 
ensure that every taluk hospital in the state has a new 
pediatric neonatal clinic. As a first step in this direction, we 
propose to reserve beds with necessary equipment and doctors. 
With financial aid from the Tamil Nadu integrated nutritious 
food plan and ONIDA [expansion not given], this scheme will have 
a Rs2.70 crore allotment. 
  118. The honorable members of this Assembly are well aware 
of 
the state's plan to provide every taluk with a hospital with 32 
beds. Under this scheme we have already taken steps to build 
wards in 11 maternity hospitals. I am pleased to announce that 
in 1994/95, the construction of these wards will be completed. I 
guarantee you that hereafter each and every one of the taluks 
will have a hospital with a minimum of basic facilities. 
  119. Villupuram has now become the headquarters of the 
district, we propose to build there a new ward with 48 beds in 
the headquarters hospital. This is a part of a scheme to provide 
every district headquarters hospital with at least 200 beds. A 
budget provision has been made for Rs83.85 lakhs for giving so 
many facilities for these hospitals. 
  120. The health protection scheme will be taken up in the 
coming year for implementation in Dharmapuri, Nagapatinam-Quaide 
Millath, and Tanjore districts. With financial aid from Danida, 
this is to cost Rs89.11 crore. This will help in promoting 
primary health care and supporting the health care system in the 
entire state. 
  121. A World Bank aided prevention of blindness project will 
be implemented very soon. This will help in reducing eye 
diseases from 1.65 percent to 0.3 percent by the year 2000. To 
attain this goal, the district headquarters hospitals will be 
provided with an addition of 1,696 beds and 48 operation 
theaters. 
  122. We have to take steps to prevent and control the cruel 
AIDS disease. We have made necessary arrangements to control the 
disease. We have already given important equipment to 44 blood 
banks out of the already functioning blood banks to ensure 
supply of well protected blood. In the coming year, with support 
from the Central Government, all the blood banks in the state 
will be provided with this equipment. With the aid from the U.S. 
AIDS control project, our plan will be implemented by the 
well-known private sector establishment called the Volunteer 
Health Service in Madras. The plan provides for publicity 
through media contacts to awaken the public about the nature of 
this disease and the way it spreads among the people. 
  123. It has now become crystal clear that with our few 
financial resources, we have to implement programs that provide 
the maximum benefit. The World Bank in its previous yearly 
report emphasized that high priority should be given to projects 
that will reduce the death rate. In order to achieve this, we 
have to promote mother-baby health and welfare, leprosy control, 
treatment for malaria, asthma, and for AIDS control on a high 
priority basis. In the work detailed, modern equipment is needed 
on a large-scale in bigger hospitals. Due to the difficult 
financial situation, we have to collect fees for such new 
facilities. This will ensure that they continue to serve the 
people with their own self-generating resources. 
<H5>  Drinking Water Distribution </H5>
  124. The state government attaches very great importance to 
the task of ensuring supply of protected water for all. The 
budget provision for the supply of drinking water in 1993/94 was 
Rs276.21 crore and in 1994/95 it will be Rs387.72 crore. 
  125. The honorable members of this Assembly are well aware 
of 
our special efforts to combat the drinking water supply problem 
following the north-eastern monsoon rains in 1992. The honorable 
chief minister, revolutionary leader, Dr. J. Jayalalitha, took 
many steps to increase the supply of drinking water in a proper 
way. She was personally involved in checking the progress every 
week. The people of Madras, in a unanimous voice applauded her 
great services to rescue them from a severe water shortage 
crisis. 
  126. The honorable chief minister has taken important steps 
to avoid any such repetition of a water crisis of this kind. She 
made a powerful plea to the executive director and the vice 
president of the World Bank to accede to her request for aid for 
her scheme to increase the drinking water supply to Madras. The 
scheme needs a large outlay. The World Bank agreed to help us. 
The World Bank will undertake in April 1994 to prepare an 
estimate for the scheme's second phase for Madras' drinking 
water purification scheme. The scheme is based on water supply 
from the new Veeranam Lake. We will commence the scheme that 
will bring 40 million gallons of water to the city every day, at 
a cost of Rs720 crore. The budget has provided Rs110 crore for 
this effort. At the same time we are trying to expedite the 
Krishna River water supply scheme. In 1994/95 the budget has 
allotted Rs100 crore for this scheme. Out of this, Rs70 crore 
will be paid to the Andhra Pradesh government, for the work to 
be undertaken on their side. We will carry out the necessary 
construction on our side with the rest of the Rs30 crore. The 
World Bank will evaluate and give an estimate of phase three of 
the Madras drinking water distribution purification scheme in 
April 1994. This Rs751-crore project will supply to the Madras 
area Krishna River water duly cleaned. It will also carry out 
the drainage removal service. The honorable members, I am sure, 
will certainly appreciate the meaningful steps to solve the 
Madras water problem on a permanent footing. 
  127. The Tamil Nadu drinking water supply scheme with World 
Bank aid is being implemented currently at a cost of Rs322 
crore, and this has been extended to December 1994. Under this 
scheme 44 cities have been provided with drinking water. Water 
cleaning facilities were given to 14 cities at a low cost. Rs35 
crore has been allotted for this scheme. The honorable members 
of this Assembly may be aware that schemes to increase water 
supply to Coimbatore, Madurai, and Selam that started in 1987/88 
have met with inordinate delay in implementation. I am happy to 
state that, due to our efforts, those schemes are now about to 
be implemented. In December 1994, there will be an additional 
water supply of 131.25 million liters per day to the Coimbatore 
municipal area, 20 cities, 523 rural settlements and as a result 
22.35 lakhs people will be benefited by the scheme. The water 
supply scheme to Madurai will supply an additional 71.6 million 
liters of water daily, thereby benefiting 12.8 lakhs people. The 
water supply scheme to Selam is about to be completed, and on 
completion this will benefit the Salem municipal area, 268 rural 
settlements with an additional water supply of 88 million liters 
of water per day and benefit 12.93 lakhs people. The water 
supply schemes for Kanjeevaram-Sankaranarkoil have been 
completed. The schemes for Pudukkottai, Thiruvannamalai, 
Manapparai, and Pollachi municipal areas will be completed in 
1994/95. 
  128. In Tamil Nadu, which has 101 municipalities, 99 have 
already been given the basic water distribution facilities. The 
Padmanabhapuram scheme will be completed in 1994/95. For 
Thirutthuraipoondi municipality, a revised scheme is under 
consideration. The schemes for 23 urban area municipalities and 
64 rural Panchayat areas will be completed in 1994/95. 
  129. The honorable members are aware that there are 
different 
views about the actual figures and statistics of rural 
settlements that received protected water supply. We wanted to 
find correct figures, so we took another survey. As per the 
survey of 1 January 1994, drinking water was not provided to 
1,239 settlements. In 1994/95 we plan to give protected water to 
those settlements. As a result, there will not be any single 
housing settlement without protected water. In addition, those 
areas that received only a partial water supply will get a full 
supply in 1994/95. 
  130. We asked the Central Government to grant Rs75 crore for 
the rural water supply scheme in 1993/94, but we got only 
Rs32.68 crore. In 1994/95 the outlay for this scheme, it has 
been learned, will be only Rs39 crore. We intend to ask for a 
substantial increase in the grant, not less than Rs50 crore from 
the Center to enable us to provide water in full measure to 
those settlement areas that received only a partial water supply. 
  131. A big drainage system is being implemented in the 
Coimbatore area. This will be completed in 1995. In the city of 
Ooty, a drainage removal scheme is being undertaken at a cost of 
Rs7.61 crore. Due to the speedy implementation of the scheme, it 
is expected to be completed in September 1995. We have been 
wondering if it is possible to use the funds from the joint 
sector institutions to extend these facilities to an additional 
number of cities also. 
  132. The honorable members of the Assembly know of the 
effort 
this government made to improve the water distribution system in 
the Ramanathapuram District. After reviewing the technological 
and financial problems involved in the matter, we have decided 
to install a desalination plant to transform sea water as 
drinking water of 1 million liters per day at Narippaiyar in 
Ramanthapuram District. This will be implemented with aid from 
the Center. 
<H5>  Welfare of Women, Children and Nutrious Food </H5>
  133. The honorable chief minister, the revolutionary leader, 
Dr. J. Jayalalitha, inaugurating the women's conference on 9 
March 1994, detailed the government's policy on women's welfare. 
This is in fact a bill of rights for women. Under the 
chairmanship of Justice Sengotu Velan, a women's high power 
committee has been appointed. 
  134. Women could enhance their income by getting improved 
training to better their employment opportunities. To promote 
self-employment for women, we have formulated many schemes. 
Through the women's committee we want to encourage 
self-employment opportunities. This will be our plan of action. 
This tactic worked very well in regard to the women's 
development project. This project was recently extended to 
Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts. Under the integrated rural 
development plan this is being implemented as an allied project 
in the rural areas as a women's and children's welfare scheme. 
We have approached the European Economic Community for aid for 
such a plan. We hope to get help from various sources. We will 
integrate all these, and in 1994/95, through self-employment 
schemes, one lakh women will be assured of help to increase 
their incomes. 
  135. The scheme to give financial aid to expectant mothers 
and mothers who breast feed their infants will be continued in 
1994/95 with an additional allotment of Rs6 crore. 
  136. The honorable members of the Assembly are aware of the 
appreciative tributes from all around the world for Dr. J. 
Jayalalitha's 15-point children's welfare scheme, which was 
inaugurated by the chief minister on 14 November 1993. UNICEF 
has hailed this as a fruitful effort and has praised Tamil Nadu 
as the first state to implement a plan of this kind in India. I 
am pleased to announce that we made this plan of action more 
effective and included it as a subsidiary project in the 1994/95 
budget. I am also happy to announce that another subsidiary 
scheme for children's development will be included in the 
1994/95 [budget] with an allotment of Rs697.65 crore. The 
details of the scheme are given below: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Details                               |Financial AllotmentsRupees in Crore   | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1. For protected maternity and to inc-|65.86                                 | 
|rease the weight of newborns to 3 kil-|                                      | 
|os                                    |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2. By inoculation, removal of all dis-|4.57                                  | 
|eases                                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3. To reduce the rate of infant morta-|6.00                                  | 
|lity below 30 percent                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4. to reduce severe deficiency of nut-|305.21                                | 
|rition and partial deficiency of nutr-|                                      | 
|ition                                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5. To get rid of malnutrition         |8.08                                  | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6. To change all hospitals and matern-|2.70                                  | 
|ity clinics as day-care centers       |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7. To prevent frequent pregnancy amon-|80.08                                 | 
|g youngsters and women                |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|8. To make compulsory primary educati-|81.32                                 | 
|on for women                          |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|9. To improve women's literacy rate a-|42.71                                 | 
|nd their plight                       |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|10. To provide day-care centers with  |91.70                                 | 
|protected water supply and best healt-|                                      | 
|h care                                |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|11. To completely eradicate child lab-|0.13                                  | 
|or                                    |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|12. To protect baby girls             |4.00                                  | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|13. To remove the social evil of kill-|0.2                                   | 
|ing baby girls                        |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|14. To prevent disabilities during ch-|4.87                                  | 
|ildhood and detect them early enough  |                                      | 
|to give them rehabilitation           |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|15. To identify genetic heart disease-|0.25                                  | 
|s at the early stages                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Total--Children welfare scheme        |6.65                                  | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  137. Our foremost effort is not merely to just protect the 
life of children, but also to ensure that every child is hale 
and healthy. The honorable members of the Assembly will welcome 
this great effort of our administration. 
  138. The revolutionary leader Dr. J. Jayalalitha's female 
children welfare scheme has received a great welcome from the 
public. The budget has provided Rs4 crore for this scheme. The 
revised scheme gives the following benefits: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1. The infant girl's first birthday   |a gold ring weighing 2 grams worth ab-| 
|                                      |out Rs800                             | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2. On joining the school              |Rs.250                                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3. On joining 6th grade               |Rs500                                 | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4. From 9th class to 12th class for f-|Rs2,000, payable in 4 years           | 
|irst 10 months at the rate of Rs50 mo-|                                      | 
|nthly for 4 years                     |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5. On the completion of 20 years of a-|Rs20,000                              | 
|ge                                    |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  139. While this new revised scheme is continuously giving 
benefits to female children, it also at the same time helps and 
improves family welfare activities. 
  140. For implementing the revolutionary leader MGR [M.G. 
Ramachandran] nutritious mid-day meal program and the allied 
Tamil Nadu integrated nutritious food scheme, aided by the World 
Bank, the budget provision for 1993/94 was Rs312.42 crore; it 
will be Rs345.36 in 1994/95. This highlights the great 
importance we attach to the nutritious food schemes. These 
schemes are being implemented throughout the state in 1994/95. 
Babies from six months to six years will be covered under the 
scheme. This kind of scheme is being implemented only in a few 
states in the whole country. Tamil Nadu is one of the few 
states. The nutritious food is being enriched by adding soya 
flour and corn flour. The honorable members of this Assembly 
will happily praise the steps we have taken to ensure that the 
children in the state get adequate nutritious food. 
  141. The state government has started a 10-point scheme for 
social and economic uplift of the Adi-Dravidas. In the current 
year we have achieved a substantial amount of success under 
various heads of the 10-point scheme, I am happy to report. We 
will continue to implement the scheme. Special areas of the plan 
and goals/targets set for 1994/95 are detailed below: 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|Subjects                              |1994/95 Budget targets:               | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|1. Economic development plans         |65,000 families                       | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|2. Digging irrigation wells           |1,000 wells                           | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|3. Entrepreneur development scheme    |1,500                                 | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|4. After training at technical instit-|500                                   | 
|utes and finding jobs                 |                                      | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|5. Free house plot deeds              |75,000                                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6. Free houses to Adi-Dravidas        |25,000                                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7. Drinking water supply              |1,500 shelters                        | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|6. Construction of link roads         |200 shelters                          | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|7. Street lighting                    |All the Adi-Dravidas' Housing area co-| 
|                                      |vered                                 | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
|8. To provide one light per household |35,000                                | 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


  142. The main focus of the 10-point scheme is to improve and 
uplift the Adi-Dravidas and Aborigines. 
  143. The honorable members of the Assembly may recall that 
in 
my last budget speech I mentioned a new investment scheme to 
encourage entrepreneurs among the Adi-Dravidas. I am happy to 
announce that the scheme to encourage the Adi-Dravida 
entrepreneurs has come into being. Two industrial estates have 
been started in Coimbatore and Periyar districts, with 100 
industrial sectors. The land for these estates has been 
obtained; land improvement measures have been undertaken. This 
project will cost Rs80 crore. The Tamil Nadu capital investment 
corporation is giving financial assistance for this project. The 
silkworm development plan has given financial aid to 1,097 
Adi-Dravidas. We propose to extend this scheme for 1994/95 also 
and finally give financial aid to 10,000 persons. 
  144. Everybody knows very well that this government has been 
giving importance to the schemes to educate the Adi-Dravidas. 
The special training camps and guides have proved to be very 
effective in the case of students. I am happy to announce that 
the number of Adi-Dravida students who passed the 10th standard 
has increased; it was 57 in 1991/92 and it was 70 in 1992/93. In 
the coming year 200 hostels for students will be started at a 
cost of Rs47.51 lakhs. In 1994/95, additional rooms will be 
added to the already existing hostels. In the budget a sum of 
Rs28.31 lakhs has been allotted to a special fund to provide 
basic necessities for the Adi-Dravida middle-level schools. 
  145. In the four districts where the literacy rate among the 
girls is very low, with the aid of the World Bank we propose to 
start a district primary education scheme. This is just to 
improve the education process among the girls of the Adi-Dravida 
and Aborigines. The Adi-Dravida girls who are poor and are about 
to stop schooling will be encouraged to continue further. A 
special incentive of Rs500 will be given every year for third 
standard to fifth standard. This scheme and the new legislation 
making education compulsory will greatly help children from the 
poor families and Adi-Dravidas and Aborigines to continue in the 
primary schools. To implement this scheme, in 1994/95, it is 
expected that this will cost Rs1.5 crore. These girls will not 
be permitted to continue after the fifth standard, by their 
families. Those girls who want to pursue their schooling, but 
who must stop for want of money, will get Rs100 per month under 
a new scheme we propose to implement throughout the state. The 
scheme is likely to cost Rs3 crore and will benefit 30,000 
Adi-Dravida girls. We are sure that the honorable members of the 
Assembly will welcome this bold venture to directly solve the 
problem of giving education to the Adi-Dravida girls. 
  146. In 1994/95, we propose to implement a new scheme to 
distribute lands to the Adi-Dravidas who are landless, to better 
their economic plight. To facilitate development of land, adopt 
better cultivation methods, volunteer services will be available 
for implementing this scheme. It will take Rs1 crore to 
implement this scheme. This will benefit about 1,000 Adi-Dravida 
families. 
<H5>  Welfare of the Backward Classes </H5>
  147. Due to our great interest in the welfare of the 
backward 
classes, we wanted to protect the quota system in the matter of 
jobs and education by bringing new legislation, and this 
historic bill awaits the consent by the president of our 
republic. 
  148. We are very much interested in promoting educational 
opportunities for the backward classes. For the students of the 
backward communities 604 student hostels are operating now. In 
1994/95, 16 new ones will be functioning. Buildings for 30 
student hostels, at a cost of Rs3.41 crore, are under 
construction. Twelve more will be built at a cost of Rs1.72 
crore in 1994/95. 
  149. Under the housing site deed distribution, in the 
1994/95 
budget a special provision has been made for Rs1.72 crore. The 
qualifying person's limit of annual income has been raised from 
Rs6,400 to Rs12,000. 
  150. We have been giving high priority for economic 
development of the backward communities. The Tamil Backward 
Communities Economic Improvement Association has been revived. 
In 1994/95 this scheme will receive an enhanced allotment of 
Rs13 crore. Help will be given to 10,000 persons. 
<H5>  Weavers' Welfare </H5>
  151. As the price of cotton has gone up considerably, the 
price of yarn has also gone up considerably. The weavers have to 
face such a different situation, and we have to see how we can 
solve this problem. We have told the Central Government that we 
have to take many steps to solve the problem, to help the 
weavers. On our part, we have opened four yarn-selling centers, 
to sell spindles of yarn, etc., at a concessional price. We have 
approached the South Indian Spinning Mills Association (SIMA) to 
give handloom weavers yarn at a concessional rate. To stabilize 
the prices, we have asked the Central Government to arrange 
immediately for import of 50,000 tons of viscose yarn without 
excise duty. We have been pressing the Center to immediately 
solve this problem and help the weavers. 
  152. The honorable chief minister has been keen on 
implementing the scheme to distribute free clothes--dhoties to 
men and saries to women among the agricultural laborers as well 
as urban poor people. For this scheme, the 1994/95 budget has 
allotted Rs46 crore. As it is proposed to get these clothes for 
men and women from the co-optex [cooperative textiles], this 
scheme will help the handloom weavers in our state. This is an 
important aspect of our social security system. 
  153. We have taken many steps to improve the lot of our 
weavers. Everybody has welcomed the scheme we introduced to give 
retirement benefits to the weavers' families. Twenty-two 
thousand, seven hundred ninety weavers have enrolled themselves. 
Still more weavers will be covered under this scheme. The scheme 
to provide houses for the weavers will continue to be 
implemented in 1994/95. One thousand houses will be constructed. 
We have also another scheme to improve the weavers' housing 
colonies. These areas have been provided with 64 bore wells at a 
cost of Rs22.40 lakhs. 
  154. In order to revitalize the cooperative spinning mills 
in 
the state, the budget has provided Rs5 crore. 
<H5>  Labor Welfare </H5>
  155. It is an undisputable fact that the new economic 
policies have paved the way for developing industrial structure 
and reforms. We have been emphasizing that under any 
circumstance we should always be careful to avoid hurting the 
interests of the working classes. Regarding the welfare of the 
working class people in the government sector organizations, we 
have sent action plans to benefit 3,497 persons, at a cost of 
Rs28.97 crore. To cover the expense of the volunteer retirement 
schemes, we have a suggestion made in our note that we should 
get help from the national renewal funds. We will press the 
Central Government to give us permission to proceed further in 
the matter. The laborers who worked in the 12 closed factories 
were given during the Deepavali festival season help from the 
chief minister's general relief funds and this cost Rs32.65 
lakhs. 
  156. In 1993 the industrial relationship was an agreeable 
one. The loss of man-day work hours due to strike and shut-outs 
was 15.56 percent less this year than the previous one. 
  157. We have decided to implement a health scheme for the 
unorganized laborers. This scheme will work through the primary 
health care centers and taluk hospitals. The plan will give 
necessary medicines, etc., and for this scheme the budget has 
provided Rs1 crore. This step is only a part of the integrated 
social security scheme to protect the interests of unorganized 
labor. For the interim relief plan, the budget has provided Rs25 
crore. This is meant to give 50,000 families that have lost 
their bread-winners relief of Rs5,000 for each family. In order 
to provide unorganized laborers retirement benefits, we intend 
to expand the scheme for the abandoned agricultural labor. The 
honorable members of this Assembly will appreciate the steps we 
have taken to provide unorganized labor with social security 
arrangements. 
  158. Under the scheme to fix minimum wages for various kinds 
of industries, we will continue to fix the minimum wages. Until 
now we have brought 67 services under the scheme. The government 
has fixed the minimum wage as not less than Rs20 a per day in 
any kind of work. In 1993, for the first time, the minimum wage 
was fixed for many industries, including peeling of the coconut 
shells, manufacture of foam and other polythene and plastic 
products, carpentry, iron implements-making, and food processing 
works. We revised the minimum wages for cheap smokes work, 
cashew nut, construction work, road maintenance, and carpentry 
in 1993. For agricultural labor we revised the minimum wages in 
1993. We are currently involved in fixing the minimum wage for 
seafood industries. 
  159. We have made substantial progress in eradicating child 
labor. In 1993, action was taken in 44 cases involving child 
labor under the Child Labor Act. This has proved to yield good 
results to keep under control child labor. 
<H5>  Schemes for Loans </H5>
  160. The state government has always been giving great 
importance to speed up economic growth. The honorable members 
are aware of the many notable changes that are evident in the 
financial set up. We welcome the steps taken by the nationalized 
sector. 
  161. We have developed a district loan system based on the 
potential link prepared for every district by the National Bank 
for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). We have taken 
steps to ensure the support of the decentralized district 
development scheme to provide on a district level enough funds. 
The main objective of the scheme is to link local development 
projects with loan facilities and organize them in a coordinated 
manner. 
  162. We have been insisting that the loan to be granted to 
Tamil Nadu not be less than Rs3,000 crore in 1944/95. We have 
particularly expressed our view that funds must be allotted for 
the plantation and irrigation development schemes and other 
schemes. The idea is to secure greater capital investment for 
agricultural development. 
  163. In the past year we revived the scheme for long-term 
loan-giving procedures. In 1991/92, 42 primary land banks were 
eligible to get refinancing from the NABARD. Now 142 banks are 
eligible. The total loan-giving capacity of these banks has 
increased; in 1991/92 it was Rs41.32 crore, and in 1994/95, we 
expect this to rise up to Rs122.57 crore. To improve further the 
capital structure of these primary land banks, we will try to 
get the NABARD's long-term funds for the share capital of these 
land banks. The loan amount for mid-term and long-term 
agricultural needs will be increased. 
  164. In my last budget speech, I referred to the growth of 
job opportunities with a plan of action. In the priority sector, 
we have succeeded in generating more growth. We have been giving 
great support for cultivation of high-priced crops and speeding 
up growth of other areas. We obtained financial aid from the 
NABARD, to give loans to the needy in rural areas. In 1994/95, 
the Jawahar employment scheme will be implemented with an 
allocation of Rs220.59 crore. With the Jawahar employment 
opportunities scheme in the coming year, the total employment 
opportunity will be 850 lakh man workdays, under the assured job 
projects, and guaranteed job opportunities schemes, in 1994/95, 
150 lakh man workdays. Thus in 1994/95, a historic total of 10 
crore man workdays will be achieved. 
  165. The village industry project we introduced to promote 
self-employment opportunities in the villages is working 
successfully. In 1993/94 one lakh workers benefited. This 
project is to be continued in 1994/95, giving the benefit to 
1.25 lakh workers. 
  166. I am happy to announce that the number of jobless 
degree 
holders went down in June 1993 as compared to June 1992, 
according to the employment exchanges office records. So far as 
those who passed the final examination or those who match that 
qualification are concerned, their rate of increase at the 
employment offices is less according to the records. Thus our 
policy regarding employment opportunities has proved to be 
yielding good results. Under the prime minister's scheme for 
promotion of self-employment, 15,000 persons will be given help 
for self-employment. 
  167. We have started the educated volunteer service scheme 
to 
allow the unemployed degree holders to serve in social welfare 
activities. Under this scheme, 1.5 lakh youngsters have been 
enrolled for service. They will be serving in the field of 
non-school education and propaganda campaign to tell the people 
of the evils of drinking. 
<H5>  Government Workers' Welfare </H5>
  168. This administration has been implementing a fair and 
just policy regarding the welfare of those employed in the state 
service. We examined very extensively the requests made by the 
government employees in December last year. In spite of the fact 
the state has been in a very difficult financial situation, we 
granted an interim relief of Rs100 per month from 1 January 
1994, and for the various categories of employees interim relief 
was given. For this important concession, the state has to spend 
Rs120 crore per year. The problem in the matter of government 
employees having to pay professional tax, has been solved in an 
agreeable manner. The travel concession plan to travel up to 400 
km out of the state has been expanded. 
  169. On the basis of the negotiations with the employees 
held 
in December 1993, the health allowance has been raised from Rs15 
to Rs30 per month. On account of this, the government has to 
spend per year Rs10 crore. 
  170. Effective 1 April 1993, the house rent allowance has 
been raised for employees. For this big change, the government 
has to spend Rs33 crore per year. For the cities under stage 1 
(A),(B) stage II towns that are 32.16 km away from the Panchayat 
unions, and stage II towns, the house rent allowance will be 
extended as per stage 1 (A), 1 (B). The demand made long ago has 
thus been granted. 
  171. Regarding the advance granted to buy warm clothes, the 
amount has been raised from Rs500 to Rs1,000 or two months pay, 
whichever is less. 
  172. We have decided that when we raise the pay according to 
the cost of living index for the government employees, those who 
receive honorariums and assignment fees will also receive a 
higher rate. Because of this step, about three lakh employees 
involved in the mid-day nutritious food scheme will be benefited. 
  173. We have decided to start a new department to deal with 
matters relating to the grievances of retired employees. This 
will facilitate the retirees getting their pensions on time. 
  174. This department will work in coordination with the 
Department of Accounting. In the case of the retirees, the 
medical allowance has been increased from Rs15 to Rs30 per 
month, and this will come into effect on 1 April 1994. Because 
of this, the government will have to spend a sum of Rs3.5 crore 
per year. 
  Nedunchezian 
  Minister of Finance 
  Madras, 24 March 1994 

