BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, May 30 KYODO -- The House of Representatives 
Budget Committee will likely vote June 8 to approve the 
long-overdue 73 trillion yen fiscal 1994 budget bill the passage 
of which has been stalled over an opposition demand to 
scrutinize money scandals involving general contractors and 
politicians, Diet sources said. 
  The prospects of the crucial bill clearing the parliamentary 
hurdle have been strengthened following an agreement between the 
ruling coalition and the opposition to hold intensive debate on 
the political ethics issue at the panel on June 6, the sources 
said. 
  The accord to give the go-ahead to the bill's passage was 
struck at a meeting of the panel's directors from both the 
coalition and the opposition, they said. 
  If the bill clears the key hurdle, it will be immediately 
referred to the House of Councillors for its approval. 
  The director of the No.1 opposition Liberal Democratic Party 
hinted that the party may demand parliamentary summoning of 
Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party] Secretary General Ichiro Ozawa 
as a sworn witness to the debate over allegations that he 
received illicit funding from general contractors, the sources 
said. 
  The director of the Social Democratic Party voiced the 
party's readiness to go along with the LDP demand. 
  The SDP, which stormed out of the coalition on April 26 over 
the abrupt formation of a large non-SDP conservative 
parliamentary bloc in the lower chamber, has taken a 
confrontational parliamentary stance against the coalition in 
recent weeks. 

