Article Type:BFN 

  [Editorial Report] The following is a compilation of 
reports on economic activities in Brazil monitored through 17 
March. 
  Despite high inflation rates and the uncertainty created by 
the government, the Brazilian economy is making progress. Last 
year the GDP rose 4.5 percent, and the industrial sector grew 
15.5 percent with the creation of 497,204 new companies compared 
with 1992. Of this total, 28,801 were created in Rio de Janeiro, 
7,000 more than in the previous year. (Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO 
BRASIL in Portuguese 20 Feb 94 p 26) 
  The Inter-American Development Bank granted a $350 million 
loan that will be used in a project designed to clean up 
Guanabara Bay. This project will improve the quality of life of 
7.3 million people living in the area. (Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO 
BRASIL in Portuguese 10 Mar 94 p 15) 
  With 223 votes for, 42 against, and five abstentions, the 
Chamber of Deputies on 9 March approved a draft bill authorizing 
the government to pay a debt of the defunct Sugar and Alcohol 
Institute, IAA, to U.S. and British creditors. This debt is the 
result of a sugar sale contract that IAA failed to comply with 
under former President Jose Sarney's administration. (Rio de 
Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 10 Mar 94 Economic 
Section p 10) 
  Planning Minister Beni Veras, Education Minister Murilio 
Hingel, and acting Finance Minister Clovis Carvalho on 18 March 
signed a $160 million agreement with the World Bank. The funds 
will be used to implement anti-AIDS programs. (Rio de Janeiro 
JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 19 Mar 94 p 16) 

