In     recent press articles, Russian officials and media 
commentators have reacted favorably toward revitalizing contacts 
with Cuba, after a prolonged decline in Russian-Cuban cooperation. 
Officials viewed political and economic agreements signed in 
December as "logical" and "mutually beneficial" in furthering the 
development of bilateral relations.  Media commentators welcomed the 
economic agreements, citing the need to pursue investment and trade 
opportunities in Cuba, and emphasized Russia's moral responsibility 
to continue its long history of friendship with the Cubans.  This 
Foreign Media Note draws on press items selected from FBIS reports 
and articles not published elsewhere. 

   Russian officials and media commentators in recent articles in 
the Russian press have endorsed the revitalization of Russian-Cuban 
relations, including two bilateral agreements with Cuba signed in 
December.  After a period of waning economic and political contacts 
in the early 199O's, marked by Russia's voting for a UN resolution 
condemning Cuban human rights violations and abstaining on a 
November 1993 resolution to lift the economic and financial blockade 
of Cuba, Russia now appears ready to renew and develop cooperation 
with its longtime political and economic client. 

   Agreements Signed 

   On 3 December 1993, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Georgiy 
Mamedov and his Cuban counterpart Isabel Allende signed agreements 
on reciprocal visa-free travel and scientific and cultural 
cooperation.  Mamedov stated that."the agreements became a logical 
link in the onward development of relations between Russia and Cuba" 
and noted the documents "are in keeping with the trend toward 
greater openness and democracy to which both Russia and Cuba are 
moving" (Moscow INTERFAX in English 1426 GMT 3 Dec 93, Daily Report 
FBIS-SOV-93-233 7 Dec 93 p 11). 

   On 24 December 1993 in Moscow, First Deputy Premiers Vladimir 
Shumeyko and Oleg Soskovets and Vice President of the Council of 
Ministers of Cuba Lionel Soto signed a memorandum on the results of 
bilateral negotiations and an agreement to set up a joint trade and 
economic association called "Roskuba," founded by approximately 3O 
major Russian financial, industrial, and banking groups including 
Rosneft, Tatneft, and Urals factories and nickel-producing plants. 
Shumeyko declared upon signing the memorandum: "Despite political 
differences, we have much in common with Cuba, and we have found the 
golden mean which enables us to develop relations with this country 
on a mutually beneficial basis."  Shumeyko asserted in an apparent 
de-emphasis on the level of government involvement in economic 
decisionmaking that the "Roskuba" agreement "lowered the level of 
economic and trade relations to that between manufacturers."  Trade 
terms in the memorandum state that Russia will receive about 1.5 
million tons of Cuban raw sugar in 1994 in exchange for four million 
tons of oil.  Shumeyko noted it was possible that the agreements 
would affect "the interests of third world countries" that purchase 
Cuban raw sugar to resell it later to Russia "at other prices" and 
"those who would like to impede the rapprochement of Russia and Cuba 
on political grounds" (Moscow INTERFAX in English 1738 GMT 24 Dec 
93, Daily Report FBIS-SOV-93-246 27 Dec 93 pp 28-29).  According to 
media commentator Leonid Velekhov, Shumeyko also remarked that 
"political assessments of the signed agreements, wherever they come 
from, do not interest him" and expressed the ambiguous hope that 
"Russia would henceforth select economic partners on the basis of 
economic, not political considerations" (Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 
No 1O5, 29 Dec 93 p 3, JPRS Report FBIS-USR-94-OO5 26 Jan 94 pp 56- 
58). 

   Media Comment 

   Media commentators from a wide range of newspapers have welcomed 
the revitalizations of Russian-Cuban relations: 

-- In his 29 December SEGODNYA article, Leonid Velekhov hailed the 
visit of the Cuban delegation that negotiated the trade agreement as 
evidence of "a new Moscow and Havana rapprochement and, at the same 
time, a final rejection by Russia, apparently, of attempts to get 
'on board' the anti- Cuban political situation."  However, he warned 
that "this new rapprochement must be employed wisely, so that it 
does not turn into a replay of the old friendship, which made 
neither of the two countries rich."  Velekhov noted that after the 
negotiations Russian Minister of Foreign Economic Relations Oleg 
Davydov became the first Russian government official to openly 
divulge the amount of Cuba's debt to Russia, announcing a debt of 
more than 2O billion dollars during the television program "Vesti." 
While Davydov stated that Cuban insolvency would preclude repayment 
of such a large sum, Velekhov pointed out the advantages of 
servicing the debt with commodities, expressing a fondness for 
"citrus fruit, the wonderful Cuban rum, liqueurs, and tobacco 
products long forgotten by us."  To achieve this, he noted, it might 
be worth holding off on reducing relations to "the level of 
manufacturers," for "to resolve this problem, it is exactly the 
notorious state level that is needed." 

-- IZVESTIYA correspondent Yevgeniy Bay welcomed moves to develop 
economic ties with Cuba as "quite logical on the surface."  He found 
the established trade terms beneficial to Russia, since "Russia can 
obtain from Cuba, on a stable basis and without any intermediaries, 
the quantity of sugar we need as and when we need it.  The shipment 
of oil takes place over a period of a few months, which is also 
within Russia's capability (with the Cubans providing a concealed 
interest-free financing of Russian imports)."  Bay commented that 
some of the sugar will also be paid for by "Russian goods that are 
uncompetitive in the world market," noting that "only Castro would 
accept something that nobody else needs any more" (Moscow IZVESTIYA 
in Russian 28 Dec 93 First Edition p 3, Daily Report FBIS-SOV-93-248 
29 Dec 93 pp 8-9). 

-- DELOVOY MIR's international correspondent Anatoliy Medvedenko 
argued that unless Russia presses ahead with economic ventures to 
overcome its past "withdrawal" from Cuba, vital opportunities will 
be lost.  He reported that 25O Cuban enterprises are in dire 
circumstances due to a lack of raw materials and spare parts and 
that the Cubans are ready to accept any proposals from Russian 
businessmen regarding joint ventures or capital investments with 
profit sharing.  Medvedenko asserted that "many capitalist 
countries" are showing interest in Cuba, attempting "either to renew 
cooperation with this Caribbean country or extend contacts that 
already exist."  Medvedenko observed that Russia has made 
considerable investments in Cuba in the past, creating "a rich and 
far-reaching infrastructure" composed of industrial and nuclear 
power installations and a major oil refinery, and warned of the 
"quite real possibility that others will profit from the fruits of 
our labor" (Moscow DELOVOY MIR 23 Dec 93 p 7). 

-- PRAVDA commentator Valeriy Mironov also raised the issue of past 
association, stating that "we should not forget the history of more 
than 3O years of cooperation between the former Soviet Union and the 
Republic of Cuba, which was our reliable political, trade and 
economic partner.  This cooperation was fruitful and mutually 
advantageous in every regard." Mironov asserted that the United 
States had pressured Gorbachev to curtail the Soviet Union's 
cooperation with Cuba, for "otherwise there would be no support for 
perestroyka."  Mironov argued that Russia has a moral responsibility 
to the Cubans, asking:  "How can we talk of morality in politics 
seeing that we had first drawn Cuba into our sphere of influence and 
then looked for new friends and partners--moreover, among those who, 
for the last 3O years or so, have dreamed of nothing but a 
convenient opportunity to settle accounts with the Cuban people once 
and for all?"  Mironov concluded:  "Our friendship with the heroic 
Cuban people, who are currently experiencing not the best period in 
their history, must be maintained in whatever direction the 
political winds may blow.  After all, history does not forgive 
weathervanes and traitors" (Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 5 Jan 94 p 6). 

(AUTHOR:  KENSKI.  QUESTIONS AND/OR COMMENTS, PLEASE CALL CHIEF, 
MILITARY/INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS BRANCH, CIS DIVISION, (7O3) 733- 
6375.) 
ENEAG/1OFEB94/POLCHF/CIS DIVISION/PF 10/1742z Feb 

