Language: <F P=105> Japanese </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by T. Yoshida and H. Koyama, Mitsubishi Electric </F>
Corp.] 
  [Text] In discussing future space developments, experts are 
predicting a shift away from satellites that merely make use of 
their position in space such as communication and broadcasting 
satellites, weather satellites, earth observation satellites, 
astronomical observation satellites, and navigation satellites 
toward satellite/base stations (material testing satellites, 
space factories, solar-powered satellites, and plants for 
recovering lunar and planetary resources) that use the unique 
zero-gravity high-vacuum environment of space to recover 
resources and energy from space. They also are predicting a 
shift from single-shot launches to a systematic utilization of 
the entire space environment. In order for space to be a place 
of industrial activity that complements the work being done on 
earth. What is needed first is a comprehensive system called a 
space infrastructure. 
  What this entails specifically is building, maintaining, and 
supporting permanent bases in space such as space stations, 
space platforms, and lunar bases. A good example of that is the 
ISS (international space station) project being conducted 
jointly between the United States, Europe, Japan, and Canada, 
but it is the space shuttle (STS) that has given new meaning to 
the STS for the first time. 
  The space shuttle, in addition to being reusable and being 
manned by astronauts, has two other notable features that make 
it different from conventional satellites in terms of orbital 
functions. The first of these has to do with the fact that the 
space shuttle has a rendezvous-docking function (RVD) that 
enables it to move freely in space and rendezvous with and link 
up with a given target. The second difference is a space 
manipulator arm called the Canada arm. These RVD and space robot 
technologies have made it possible for the first time to build, 
maintain, and support the ISS. 
  In this paper, we provide an overview of the RVD and space 
robot technologies and describe the technical problems 
encountered in each, and then outline where we at Mitsubishi 
Electric are at in terms of R&amp;D being done in these areas. 
<H5>  1. Rendezvous-Docking Technology </H5>
  (1) Overview of Rendezvous-Docking Technology 
  Rendezvous-docking (RVD) technology is a general term used 
to 
describe the overall technology for launching a spacecraft 
called a ``chaser'' from the earth or a holding orbit toward 
another orbiting satellite or spacecraft called a ``target,'' 
and having the chaser spacecraft rendezvous with and link up 
with that target spacecraft. The process in which the chaser 
approaches the target is called the ``rendezvous,'' and the 
process of linking up is called ``docking.'' 
  RVD technology also includes a series of processes in which 
after separating from the target the chaser either leaves the 
target and returns to earth or to a fixed orbital position, or 
is jettisoned, that is, allowed to enter the earth's atmosphere 
and burn up. Hence, RVD technology could be called a type of 
complex technology or system technology that spans a wide range 
of activities. 
  (2) Trends in Rendezvous-Docking Technology 
  There are only two countries in the world today, the United 
States and Russia, that have made practical use of RVD 
technology. However, since RVD is one of the basic technologies 
for future space activities, there is vigorous research being 
done by other countries as well including Japan, France, and 
Germany. 
  Since the late 1970s, Japan has been doing research on RVD 
technology at the National Aerospace Laboratory run by the 
Science and Technology Agency, the National Space Development 
Agency, and the Institute of Space and Aeronautical Science 
operated by the Ministry of Education. In the fall of 1992, the 
National Space Development Agency installed a computer graphics 
driven simulator at the Tsukuba Space Center to do research and 
testing on RVD systems. 
  The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (Institute 
for Unmanned Space Experiment Free Flyer), the Ministry of 
Education (Institute of Space and Aeronautical Science), and the 
Science and Technology Agency (National Space Development 
Agency) are also jointly involved in developing a space 
experiment and observation free flyer called the Space Flyer 
Unit (SFU) which is targeted for launch a year and a half from 
now. The Space Flyer Unit will be Japan's first reusable 
satellite. After being launched by a Japanese H-II rocket, the 
satellite will be recovered by a U.S. space shuttle and sent 
back to Japan to be reused (cf. Figure 1).[.sup](1)[/] The 
SFU will be equipped with a navigational guidance and control 
system that can control the spacecraft for up to 44 hours, and 
will be used to take it from an operational orbit to the space 
shuttle recovery point under its own power. In that sense, the 
SFU is expected to be the first Japanese satellite to perform a 
rendezvous. 



  Another project being planned is the ETS-VII (8th 
engineering 
test satellite). The National Space Development Agency is 
currently working on the preliminary design and schedule for 
launching the ETS-VII in 1997. It will be the first time that 
Japan will perform a major RVD experiment in orbit which 
includes docking. As far as future projects, we are looking into 
other uses for RVD technology in the HOPE space shuttle that 
will be launched by an H-II rocket, and will be used to supply 
the international space station (ISS). In Figure 2 [figure not 
reproduced], we show a conceptual drawing of the HOPE rendezvous 
with the ISS.[.sup](1)[/] 
  In conventional rendezvous-docking as performed by the 
United 
States, a pilot from a manned spacecraft performs the rendezvous 
and docking while maneuvering the spacecraft. The former Soviet 
Union used to use a similar technology but later switched to an 
automated RVD system. The type of docking done by both the 
United States and former Soviet Union is called impact docking 
because of the fast relative speeds during docking (about 
0.2-0.5 m/s). Compared with that, Japan is considering an 
automated type RVD technology in an unmanned spacecraft 
(remotely controlled from the ground). It will be a low-impact 
type (2-3 cm/s) so that docking speed will have little effect on 
the equipment carried aboard the spacecraft. This new type of 
RVD technology has proven to be quite a challenge so far in the 
R&amp;D being done by the United States and Europe, but Japan 
hopes 
that with the ETS-VII that it will become the first country in 
the world to test this new technology. 
  (3) Work Done by Mitsubishi Electric on Rendezvous-Docking 
Technology 
  At Mitsubishi Electric, we first began to realize the 
importance of RVD technology in the late 1970s right after Japan 

<FIG ID=JPRS-JST-007LC-14A>  Figure 1.  Conceptual Drawing of SFU Operational Sequence </FIG>

had become the third country in the world to launch a 
geostationary satellite, and subsequently built up a lot of 
R&amp;D 
over the next 10 years. In recent years, the activities with 
which we have been involved include supporting the joint 
research between the National Aerospace Laboratory and the 
National Space Development Agency, taking part in joint research 
with the Institute of Space and Aeronautical Science, 
supervising research commissioned by the National Space 
Development Agency, organizing the SFU system, and designing a 
navigational guidance and control system. While being receptive 
to guidance from many quarters, we have concurrently pushed 
ahead with in-house developments.[.sup](1)[/] 
  The R&amp;D spans many diverse fields including sensors 
(imaging 
sensors, laser sensors, etc.), equipment such as docking 
facilities, on-board computers, navigational guidance and 
control systems, flight management systems, S/W AND H/W 
simulators, and design and analysis programs. An example of this 
is the docking dynamic simulator (DDS) shown in Figure 3 which 
we developed in-house in 1990. The DDS is a unit that has the 
capability to precisely reproduce the six degrees of relative 
rotational and translational motion in a zero-gravity 
environment for two spacecraft as they dock and separate. France 
is the only other country in the world with a zero-gravity 
motion simulator based on a similar principle of operation. This 
piece of equipment has been attracting a lot of attention both 
inside and outside Japan. 



<H5>  2. Space Robot Technology </H5>
  (1) Overview of Space Robot Technology 
  The space robot, a kind of robot carried aboard a spacecraft 
and used to perform work in space, is becoming more important in 
terms of future space activities, and so a lot more R&amp;D is 
going 

<FIG ID=JPRS-JST-007LC-14B>           Figure 3.  Docking Dynamic Simulator </FIG>

into the space robot here in Japan and elsewhere. The R&amp;D on 
space robot technology in Japan started in the mid-1980s. From 
1990, the National Space Development Agency has been developing 
plans to do orbital experiments on space robot technology using 
the ETS-VII. 
  In 1991, the National Space Development Agency installed a 
space robot test bed at the Tsukuba Space Center that provided 
an environment approximating actual operating conditions in 
space for the purpose of doing research and testing on the 
element technologies needed for such a space robot. 
  (2) Work Done by Space Robot 
  The space robot has two different configurations depending 
on 
the type of work it is doing. There is the remote-controlled 
space robot and the autonomous space robot. 
  After a chaser spacecraft has rendezvoused and linked up 
with 
the target spacecraft it is to service using the rendezvous 
technology described in the foregoing sections of this report, 
the remote-controlled space robot is used to perform tasks such 
as replacing orbital replacement units (ORU), assembling 
structural elements such as trusses, assisting with other 
structural work, assisting with space experiments, and making 
repairs, all done by remote-control instructions received from 
the ground. What we mean here by the ORU is a module that is 
loaded with replacement batteries and supplemental propellant. 
  The autonomous-type space robot is a space robot having 
sophisticated autonomous features that do not require human 
intervention at all. The autonomous space robot was designed for 
doing busing work by an unmanned spacecraft which is almost 
impossible to do by remote control from earth, and for 
performing activities in deep space where human intervention is 
basically impossible. An example of the busing work done by an 
autonomous space robot is illustrated in the conceptual drawing 
of ASREX (automatic satellite retrieval experiment) shown in 
Figure 4 that was part of a joint research project conducted 
with the Education Ministry's Institute of Space and 
Aeronautical Science in 1987.[.sup](1)[/] 



  (3) Work Done by Mitsubishi Electric on Space Robot 
Technology 
  Mitsubishi Electric has been working non-stop to develop the 
technologies for the two types of space robots mentioned 
above.[.sup](1,2)[/] A major problem that we have encountered 
in developing the remote-controlled space robot has been finding 
a way to resolve the time delays in the data communication 
pathways that connect the operator on the ground with the space 

<FIG ID=JPRS-JST-007LC-15A>  Figure 4. Conceptual Drawing of Automated Busing Work of Satellite </FIG>

robot, and also the limitations on the amount of information 
that can be transmitted. For the reason, we will have to come up 
with several ways to compensate for the addition of partial 
autonomy in the orbital system, and for the deterioration in 
maneuverability. 
  In specific terms, we recognized the effectiveness of 
introducing a force control system in the orbital system for 
permitting alignment and maneuvering errors due to remote 
control, and the effectiveness of introducing a prediction 
display screen in the ground system to enable the operating 
status of the space robot to be predicted in real time with the 
help of a computer. We also confirmed the effectiveness of 
shaping the robot fingers, the objects to be worked on, and the 
work sequence itself so as to make the work done by the space 
robot that much more easier (robot-friendly). In Figure 5, we 
show a schematic drawing of a ground-based experiment involving 
a remote-controlled space robot developed by Mitsubishi 
Electric.[.sup](1)[/] 


<FIG ID=JPRS-JST-007LC-15B>  Figure 5. Ground Based Experiment on Remote-Controlled Space Robot </FIG>



  In the meantime, one of the main goals in developing the 
autonomous space robot is to perfect the busing work involved in 
capturing and releasing a target satellite. In order to develop 
a space robot that will be able to perform the required busing 
work on its own, one of the major things that must be done is to 
develop test apparatus that enable us to do simulations on the 
ground that take into account the bi-directional movement of the 
target satellite captured with the satellite vehicle in a 
zero-gravity environment so that we might develop the necessary 
control algorithms, busing sensors, and confirm these functions 
and operations. 
  Therefore, Mitsubishi Electric has been working on a 
ground-based test apparatus called the ``busing simulator'' 
equipped with an arm that will enable the motion of the 
satellite vehicle and the target satellite to be simulated 
during capture and release of the target satellite by the arm. 
In Figure 6 [figure not reproduced], we show the busing work 
done by the busing simulator. 
  The busing simulator enables simulation of the six degrees 
of 
relative motion between the satellite main unit and target. The 
right side of the photo shows the satellite vehicle with robot 
arm, and the left side of the photo shows the target satellite. 
The satellite vehicle has been provided with visual sensors to 
measure the relative position and relative attitude against that 
of the target satellite. 
<H5>  3. Future Prospects </H5>
  Rendezvous-docking and space robot technologies will be as 
important to future space developments as the wheel was to the 
automobile. 
  A report issued by the long-term policy committee in the 
Space Activities Commission (PM Office), commenting on plans 
beyond the 21st century, said that Japan will continue taking 
part in international joint ventures in areas such as the space 
station, and that it will build its own space station and turn 
this into a base for building large space factories and 
maintaining and operating low-cost space shuttles. The report 
also talked about Japan expanding its space probe activities 
including on-going observations of space from a large facility 
in space, and making direct probes to other bodies in the solar 
system and taking back samples from those places. 
  Rendezvous-docking technology and space robot technology are 
expected to form a solid technological base for achieving the 
large-scale space activities that we have mentioned above. 
Bibliography 
  1. Kawauchi, Yoshida, Inoue: ``Space Robot and 
Rendezvous-Docking Technologies,'' Mitsubishi Denki Giho, Vol 
65, No 10, pp 61-65, (1991) 
  2. Koyama, et al.: ``Control Technology Used in Space 
Robot,'' Mitsubishi Denki Giho, Vol 66, No 7, pp 11-15, (1991) 

