Language: <F P=105> Spanish </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Interview with Government Minister German Quiroga by Mario </F>
Canipa Vargas in La Paz -- no date given] 
  [Excerpts] [Canipa] The government has been making changes 
since its inauguration last August. It is insisting on making 
changes. What are the changes made in your ministry? 
  [Quiroga] There are three basic aspects we want to change in 
the transition from the old Interior Ministry to the new 
Government Ministry. 
  The first is related to the intelligence services, which 
terrified the people. This was the part of the state that 
investigated the possibility of a coup, of sedition. But we now 
believe that under a modern and established democracy like ours, 
these services must contribute to people's security, and along 
with its basic organization -- which is the police -- should 
support Bolivians and give them daily security. 
  We are working on it. The first step taken is to 
institutionalize the intelligence services and put them in the 
hands of the police in order to prevent them from becoming an 
instrument of the political power that happens to be in charge 
of the Government Ministry. 
  [Canipa] Is there no longer a Government Ministry 
intelligence service? 
  [Quiroga] There is an intelligence service in the Government 
Ministry that depends on the police, and all its members are 
part of the Bolivian police. 
  This is closely linked to the changes in the police as part 
of the first aspect. [passage omitted] 
  [Canipa] What will happen with the struggle against drug 
trafficking? Will it be included in these changes? 
  [Quiroga] Of course. To start with, we have changed the 
Social Defense Secretariat, which once was exclusively linked to 
the issue of coca and cocaine. It now has a wider role involving 
prevention and interdiction. 
  Although interdiction had been an important role, we believe 
alternative development is also an essential issue. It will not 
be possible to achieve an adequate replacement for surplus coca 
production if we are not able to find an economic solution. 
  The only way that an individual who grows coca stops doing 
it 
is when he realizes that growing another product is more 
profitable than growing coca from the economic point of view. 
  This is what we are working on. We have taken control of the 
fund for alternative development by changing its structure. We 
created an executive board presided over by a delegate of the 
president of the Republic, and its responsibility is shared by 
the Executive Branch and coca producers. 
  We would like to see the executive board create the ideas to 
carry out alternative development. 
  Eradication will be linked to alternative development. In 
those places where eradication is being carried out there will 
be alternative development, and where alternative development 
took place it was because there was a reduction in coca growing. 
  But I am not saying that we will eliminate interdiction. We 
will continue the work being carried out in the country but 
interdiction will be exclusively against drug traffickers, not 
against coca growers or people involved in the legal 
commercialization of coca. 
  We have a Special Antinarcotics Force [FELCN] that is an 
example for Latin America, and we will continue to support it 
because we believe that interdiction is essential. We also will 
carry out prevention as an overall part of our strategy, and 
this is why we created the Social Prevention Under Secretariat, 
which will deal with alcoholism, drug addiction, and crimes. 
This organization will help try to prevent these evils in 
society through teaching programs. 
  [Canipa] To talk about successful and real alternative 
development, not just in speeches the way it is now, means 
talking about resources. How will you finance the alternative 
development projects to become a reality? 
  [Quiroga] We are talking about three basic sources of 
financing. The first is the resource that drug trafficking 
itself produces. The country has many resources from drug 
trafficking that are lost with time. We are talking about a 
great deal of money, many assets that have been disappearing. 
  The one responsible was first the Interior Ministry; later 
it 
was a shared responsibility between prosecutors and the Interior 
Ministry. Now it is the responsibility of prosecutors and the 
judges who hand over the assets to trustees who later disappear. 
  We will propose that the Legislative Branch change the law 
to 
be able to immediately auction confiscated assets to create a 
common fund to support the people found innocent after their 
assets were confiscated. 
  With this fund we hope to finance 30 to 35 percent of the 
alternative development programs. 
  The second resource will be multinational organizations. The 
United Nations and the Inter-American Development Bank are 
interested in carrying out alternative development programs 
under the concept that the only way to do it adequately is 
through the industrialization of the areas where surplus coca is 
grown. 
  The third financing resource is the United States with 
bilateral aid. That country gave about $20 million to $25 
million annually for alternative development, but a large part 
of those resources were used to pay salaries and not necessarily 
to carry out alternative development. 
  With these three resources, which are not from the national 
Treasury, in addition to some funds from the national budget, we 
believe we can carry out a good alternative development policy. 
  [Canipa] Regarding interdiction, there has been a great deal 
of talk about the presence of Colombian drug traffickers in 
Bolivia. Is that true? 
  [Quiroga] We have information about new technology. The 
technology used in the country is different from that used by 
the Medellin and Cali cartels. But in the last two years we have 
seen that the technology to produce coca and cocaine in the 
country has quickly improved. And this makes the narcotics 
intelligence organizations think there is permanent and decisive 
cooperation by the Colombian drug cartels. 
  Another aspect is that probably 80 percent of the drug 
produced in the country goes to Colombia. Whether it goes to 
Paraguay, Argentina, or Brazil, its final destination is 
Colombia, where the last stage of purification is made before it 
is sent to the United States. 
  Perhaps this is the most important reason to continue with 
interdiction, to prevent Colombian drug traffickers from 
establishing themselves in our country. 
  [Canipa] Does this represent a threat of violence ...? 
  [Quiroga] Without a doubt, this may represent violence 
because the mafia is violent and we will not send nuns from a 
convent to fight against them. We must send outstanding officers 
against them because this is a war, a war in which the 
government, the police, have to fulfill the laws when the other 
side violates them. 
  Drug traffickers violate sovereignty, hurt the population by 
threatening them, and also murder with impunity. 
  It is an unjust struggle because one side has laws and 
regulations to fulfill while the other side has absolutely no 
restrictions. 
  [Canipa] Do you have a list of the main drug traffickers in 
the country? Who heads the list? 
  [Quiroga] We have a permanent list that undergoes changes 
based on arrests. The number one in the country is "Meco" 
Dominguez, who was sentenced but later escaped; he is at large. 
  There is also a list of nine individuals who are a number 
one 
priority for FELCN. Only two months ago the number one on that 
list was "Nando" Gutierrez, who was captured. As you can see it 
is a list that changes periodically. 
  We have a FELCN that is very efficient but the DEA's 
cooperation in this work must be recognized. 

