BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, April 7 KYODO -- Japan will continue to dump 
industrial waste in the ocean despite revision of an 
international treaty which in principle will ban such activities 
from 1996, Environment Agency sources said Thursday [7 April]. 
  The volume of Japan's industrial waste dumped at sea 
accounts 
for two-thirds of the world's total. 
  The government reviewed its dumping in light of the revision 
in the convention on the prevention of marine pollution by 
dumping of wastes and other matters. Even so, it decided to 
endorse dumping of about 80 percent of industrial waste 
currently dumped at sea, the sources said. 
  The material includes construction waste, sewage sludge and 
fluid from the manufacture of clear distilled liquor, they said. 
  The government judged that most industrial wastes dumped in 
the ocean corresponds to materials still permitted by the 
revision, the sources said. 
  The convention was revised at a signatory nations' meeting 
in 
November. Exceptions to the ban include materials such as 
dredged waste, sewage sludge, uncontaminated inert geological 
materials and uncontaminated organic materials of natural origin. 
  The revision leaves each country to judge what will 
correspond to the exceptions. 
  Currently, Japan annually dumps about 4.4 million tons of 
industrial waste, including 2.8 million tons of sludge and 1.3 
tons of waste fluid, they said. 
  The government decided to ban dumping of waste fluid from 
photo processing and some sludge from sewage and construction, 
but the volume of the industrial wastes to be reduced will be 
not more than 900,000 tons, or 20 percent of current volume, 
they said. 
  The sources said the decision is a provisional measure 
because the convention may ban all industrial waste dumping 
without exception after 1996. 

