The     Japanese Government is supporting the development of fuel 
cell technology in its search for breakthroughs in clean technology. 
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has budgeted 
approximately 57 billion yen ($520 million) for its 17-year fuel 
cell development project.  In 1993 the government organized a new 
national R&amp;D project, in coordination with the private sector, with 

the aim of becoming the world's leader in fuel cell technology. 

   Fuel Cell Technology 

   MITI has been promoting the development and use of fuel cell 
technology as a part of its R&amp;D project on advanced utilization of 
fossil fuels under its "New Sunshine Program. "  Fuel cell power 
generation is a highly efficient, yet environmentally friendly 
technology that generates very little pollutants, such as C02, SOx 
and NOx emissions, and creates little noise and no hot waste water. 

   Fuel cells generate power by converting fuel energy directly into 
electricity through chemical reaction.  Natural gas, methanol, and 
coal-derived gas are used as fuels.  The advantage of fuel cell 
power generation is that the technology is adaptable from small- 
scale dispersed systems to large-scale centralized power stations, 
with high energy efficiency as much as 40 to 60 percent.  If exhaust 
heat is added, the total energy efficiency can reach 80 percent. 

   According to the kind of electrolyte used, fuel cells are 
categorized into five types:  Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell (PAFC), 
Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell (MCFC), Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC), 
Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell (PEFC), and Alkaline Fuel Cell (AFC). 
(SHIKEN KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 1993) 

   New Sunshine Program 

   In order to promote comprehensive research and development in 
both the energy and environmental fields, in fiscal year (FY) 1993 
MITI initiated a new plan called the "New Sunshine Program," 
unifying three previously established projects--the Sunshine Project 
(new energy technology R&amp;D: established 1974), the Moonlight Project 

(energy efficiency technology development: established 1978), and 
the Global Environmental Technology Research and Development System 
(established 1989). 

   MITI has budgeted approximately 57 billion yen ($520 million) for 
fuel cell projects for a 17-year period from FY81 to FY97 (MITI 
HANDBOOK 1990 AND 1992).  The approximate budget allocation is as 
follows: 

                          Budget for Fuel Cell Projects 

                                 FY90       FY91     FY92      FY93 

(Unit: million yen)             3,180     3,738     4,332    5,039 
(Unit: million dollars)            29        34        39       46 

   (Budget increase between FY90 and FY93 is approximately 58 
percent.) 



   The total budget for the New Sunshine Program for FY92 was 
approximately 38 billion yen ($350 million) and was increased to 41 
billion yen ($373 million) for FY93.  MITI allocated approximately 
11 percent of the total budget for the fuel cell projects for FY92 
and 12 percent for FY93 (SHIKEN KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 1993). 

   Fuel Cell Projects Under the New Sunshine Program 

   This systematic national R&amp;D project for fuel cell technology was 

started in 1981, sponsored by MITI's Agency of Industrial Science 
and Technology (AIST).  MITI's Agency of National Resources and 
Energy (ANRE) also started sponsoring a new field-test project, as 
well as a project for promoting fuel cell systems beginning in 1991. 
The New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization 
(NEDO), a quasi-government organization under ANRE, was founded in 
1980 to promote national R&amp;D projects on oil-alternative energy 
technologies and has been the primary agency overseeing the project 
since FY84 (JAPAN 21ST Nov 93, AIST 1993). 

   Over 50 on-site PAFC power generation units are currently being 
operated for evaluation and demonstration at a number of utility 
testing facilities and customer buildings of major electric and gas 
companies in Japan.  Some of these efforts are subsidized by MITI, 
with NEDO funding one third of the installation cost.  Two projects 
were initiated in 1991 and 1992, targeting early market entry of 
PAFC.  One of the projects is a private field test program 
subsidized by NEDO.  The other project involves the development of 
two large-scale PAFC power plants--a 5-MW PAFC power plant for urban 
energy center application, which is under construction at Kansai 
Electric Power Company's Amagasaki Technoland (operation scheduled 
in FY94), and a 1-MW on-site PAFC co-generation plant, which is 
under construction at Tokyo Gas Company's Research Institute 
(operation scheduled in FY95).  A PAFC technology research 
association, established in 1991 by 14 electric and gas utility 
companies, is promoting development and demonstration tests of these 
power plants (JAPAN 21ST Nov 1993, NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 

   Toward a "Comprehensive Policy Package" 

   The Advisory Committee for Energy was established in 1965 under 
the supervision of ANRE.  Its function is to review and evaluate, at 
MITI's request, critical issues regarding long-term comprehensive 
measures to be taken to stabilize and rationalize energy supply. 
The committee can submit its "views" to the minister on critical 
issues.  The Alternative Energy Subcommittee of the Advisory 
Committee for Energy consists of officials from quasi-government 
organizations, officers of Japanese companies, journalists, and 
national university professors.  A mid-term report entitled 
"Promoting New Energy Toward the Year 2000" was prepared by the 
Alternative Energy Subcommittee and appeared in MITI's information 
bulletin (TSUSANSHO KOHO 16 Dec 93).  In the report, the 
subcommittee suggested the construction of a "comprehensive policy 
package" including establishment of infrastructure for new energy 
dissemination in view of regulations. 

   Members of the Alternative Energy Subcommittee: 

   Chairman 

   Noboru Makino, director and senior adviser, Mitsubishi Research 
Institute 

   Members from organizations under the supervision of MITI 

   Hisao Oka, managing director, NEDO 
   Takao Tominaga, vice chairman, Japan Automobile Manufacturers 
Association (JAMA) 
   Koshiro Goda, managing director, the Japan Gas Association 
   Seiichi Takayanagi, chairman, Energy System Policy Committee, the 
Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) 
   Riichi Hashimoto, chairman, New Energy Foundation (NEF) 
   Tadashi Yorita, chairman, Central Research Institute of Electric 
Power Industry (CRIEPI) 
   Hideaki Ikuta, managing director, The Institute of Energy 
Economics, Japan (IEE) 

   Other Members 

   Teiichi Yamamoto, director, Japan Development Bank 
   Haruki Asakawa, managing director, Central Electric Power Council 
   Ikuyo Takase, vice chairman, Japan Coal Association 
   Jiro Yamamoto, chairman, Technology Committee, Petroleum 
Association of Japan 
   Kazuo Inamori, chairman, Kyocera Corporation 
   Yoichi Kaya, professor, Dept. of Technology, The University of 
Tokyo 
   Toshio Ojima, professor, Waseda University 
   Takanobu Fujita, commentator, NHK 
   Katsuhiko Suetsugu, editorial writer, the Nihon Keizai Shimbun 
   Chikamori Kawagishi, editorial writer, the Yomiuri Shimbun 
   Noriko Kimoto, commentator 

   Government Incentives for Technological Development in the 
Private Sector 

   In order to encourage R&amp;D by the private sector, tax incentives 
are offered for technological development and the Japan Development 
Bank (JDB) provides financing for the development of industrial 
technology.  JDB was established in 1951 as a public financial 
institution whose mandate was to provide funds to private industry 
that would support government policies and initiatives. 

   Effective until 31 March 1995, deductions can be taken from 
corporate (or income) tax of an amount equal to 20 percent of the 
excess of current qualified R&amp;D expenditure over the highest amount 

of the previous R&amp;D expenditure as well as seven percent of the 
acquisition price of facilities for conducting R&amp;D in fundamental 
technologies.  Six percent of the qualified expenditure for 
collaborative research with national laboratories is tax deductible. 

   Conditional loans are also available for development of applied 
energy technologies to assist private companies in the development 
of energy source alternatives to oil, methods of energy 
conservation, and electric power generation technologies.  MITI 
budgets approximately 1.5 billion yen ($14 million) for development 
of applied oil-substitute technologies, 1.3 billion yen ($12 
million) for development of applied technologies relating to 
rational energy use, and 472 million yen ($4.2 million) for 
development of applied new power generating technologies for FY93 
(AIST 1993). 

   Development Targets and R&amp;D Schedule of the New Sunshine Program 


   The status of R&amp;D for each fuel cell type is described below. 
See also Attachment 1. 

   Alkaline Fuel Cells 

   R&amp;D for fundamental technology started in 1981.  The 1-kW-class 
cell stack was developed, tested, and evaluated.  R&amp;D was 
successfully concluded in 1984, with prospects for practical 
applications (SHIKEN KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 1993). 

   Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cells 

   The development of PAFC has progressed the farthest among all 
types of fuel cells.  Between 1981 and 1984, fundamental technology 
R&amp;D for 1000-kW-class, low-temperature, low-pressure power plants 
and high-temperature, high-pressure power plants was conducted.  A 
low-temperature, low-pressure power plant was built at Kansai 
Electric Power Company's Sakai Minato Station and a high- 
temperature, high-pressure power plant was built at Chubu Electric 
Power's Chita No. 2 Station in 1985 (SHIKEN KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 
1993). 

   Development of PAFC has already achieved an overall energy 
efficiency of 80.2 percent and cumulative power generating time of 
13,038 hours, in the case of the 200-kW-class combination module of 
thermal and electric power installed at the Osaka Plaza Hotel; and 
power generating efficiency of 39.7 percent with the cumulative 
operating time of 8,449 hours, in the case of the 200-kW-class power 
generating type installed on Tokashiki Island in Okinawa (SHIKEN 
KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 1993, NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93). 

   The LP Gas Promotion Center has jointly developed, with Fuji 
Electric Co., a 100-kW PAFC prototype plant using butane as fuel. 
Power generation efficiency is expected to be about 40 percent. 
Since butane is about 10 percent cheaper than propane and propane 
can also be used for the fuel cells designed for butane, the plant 
should be highly marketable, especially for industrial applications 
(See FBIS PERSPECTIVES Vol. 9, No. 1, 31 Jan 94). 

   Molten Carbonate Fuel Cells 

   MCFC technology is at the center of the fuel cell development 
project, since the cells serve as an alternative energy source to 
thermal power and use gasified coal as fuel.  In FY94 NEDO is 
scheduled to inaugurate development of an MCFC-applied 1,000-kW 
power plant (KAGAKU K0GYO NIPP0 9 Sep 93). 

   Fundamental technology R&amp;D started in 1981.  NEDO has recently 
achieved the world record with its generation of 129 kW.  It used 
102 external-reformer-type, large-capacity cells, each with an 
electrode area of 1 square meter (See FBIS PERSPECTIVES Vol. 8, No. 
11, 30 Nov 93).  NEDO has also succeeded in continuous MCFC 
operation for 10,190 hours, with a voltage drop of 0.5 percent per 
1,000 hours, using a 5-kW internal-reformer type cell.  This 
achievement attained 33 kW with an electrode area of 0.5 square 
meters (NIKKAN K0GYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93).  However, experts say fuel 
cells will have to operate continuously for a minimum of 40,000 
hours before they can be used commercially (THE NIKKEI WEEKLY 2 Aug 
93). 

   MITI's AIST and the MCFC Power Generation System Technology 
Consortium have achieved their primary objective of putting MCFCs to 
practical use.  The consortium was formed under the supervision of 
AIST as part of the New Sunshine Program for the development of new 
energy with participation of equipment manufacturers and utility 
companies (See Attachment 2).  The performance test at the 100-kW 
plant at the Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry's 
Akagi Experimental Center achieved 0.8 volts per 1 square centimeter 
of electrode at 150 milliampere of current for 1,000 hours of 
operation.  Electric output after 1,000 hours of operation dropped 
only by a little over 1 percent.  When the consortium builds the 
world's first 1,O00-kW experimental plant the electricity is 
expected to cost 14-15 yen (about 13 cents) per kilowatt, the power 
generation efficiency will reach 54 percent, and overall energy 
efficiency will reach 76 percent.  These figures indicate that the 
plant should be commercially viable (See FBIS PERSPECTIVES Vol. 9, 
No. 1, 31 Jan 94). 

   Solid Oxide Fuel Cells 

   R&amp;D for fundamental SOFC technology started in 1981 and several 
10-kW-class cell modules were successfully developed in 1991. 

   Chubu Electric Power Co. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries have 
succeeded in generating power continuously for 7,000 hours, using 
two stacks of 7.5 cm x 7.5 cm advanced SOFCs, a world record.  Each 
cell has a projected electrode area of 25 square centimeters, 
indicating 0.5 watts of output density, three times more than that 
of the conventional SOFC.  Toho Gas Co. has set the world record for 
output density by achieving 1.61 watts per square centimeter for a 
single cell which was test-produced for a flat-plate SOFC (See FBIS 
PERSPECTIVES Vol. 9, No. 1, 31 Jan 94). 

   Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cells 

   Fundamental PEFC technology R&amp;D started in 1992.  A 200-watt cell 

is being developed by layering cells with an electrode area of 100 
square centimeters (NIKAAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 Sep 93).  NEDO aims to 
develop 1-kW module and AIST targets to develop prototype 1-kW cell 
based on research at its Osaka Govern- ment Industrial Research 
Institute (See FBIS FOREIGN PRESS NOTE FB PN 93-169 19 Apr 93). 

   R&amp;D Programs of National Laboratories 

   The following is the list of national laboratories currently 
conducting R&amp;D activities for fuel cell technology under the New 
Sunshine Program and the budgets for specific projects for FY92 and 
FY93 (SHIKEN KENKYUJO KENKYU KEIKAKU 1993): 



                                            FY92            FY93 

National Institute of Materials and 
Chemical Research (NIMC), AIST              (Unit:thousand yen) 

SOFC (R&amp;D/wet type technology)                               2,938 
     (R&amp;D/evaluation)                                       23,941 
PEFC (R&amp;D/fundamental technology)                            1,000 
(Evaluation of characteristics                               5,010 
     of polymer film) 

Electrotechnical Laboratory (ETL), AIST 

SOFC (R&amp;D/dry type technology)                 5,130         4,784 
       (R&amp;D/efficiency of power generation)   46,600        46,000 
National Institute for Resources and 
Environment, AIST 

SOFC (Research on a system to collect 
      exhaust heat)                            1,800         1,393 
(Research on methods to evaluate 
      systems to collect exhaust heat)         6,400         6,278 

National Chemical Lab for Industry 
(NCLI), AIST 

SOFC (R&amp;D/wet type technology)                 2,715 
       (R&amp;D/evaluat ion)                      24,400 

Government Industrial Research 
Institute, Osaka (GIRI, Osaka), AIST 

MCFC (Research on new component 
       materials/composition materials)        4,130         4,036 
       (Test and evaluation of materials)    111,258        15,000 

PEFC (Research on cell materials)                            1,161 
       (Test and evaluation of fuel cells)    11,330        16,170 
       (Research)                              1,250 



   Diffusion of Fuel Cell Technology 

   The Advisory Committee for Energy submitted on 10 December 1993 
its views about diffusion of fuel cell technology to MITI.  In its 
report the committee recommended vigorous efforts for diffusion and 
R&amp;D of fuel cell technology.  The committee identified problems 
which presently prevent fuel-cell technology from diffusion as 
follows:  Although practical use of PAFC technology is on the way, 
long-term reliability of a cell and a fuel-cell plant has to be 
improved.  In order to popularize construction of fuel-cell plants, 
construction cost need to be drastically reduced.  Development 
should be focused on reliability and durability in long-term plant 
operation, utilizing all the data from field tests, as well as cost 
reduction, convenience for users, system standardization, and market 
expansion through diversification of fuel types.  R&amp;D objectives for 

PAFC, including large-unit operation, high efficiency, cost 
reduction, and commercialization, should be also applied to MCFC, 
SOFC, and PEFC at each technology level (TSUSANSHO KOHO 16 Dec 93). 

   The following chart compares the cost of new energy and existing 
power generation: 


                               Installation Cost     Power 
Generation 
Cost 
                               (Unit: thousand yen)      (Unit: yen) 
New Energy 

Photovoltaic Power                 1,000/kW                71/kW h 
Wind Power                           500/kW                32/kW h 
Fuel Cell                          1,500/kW             35-46/kW h 
(peripheral equipment and 
 protective devices not included) 

Existing Energy 

Petroleum Power                      190/kW                 11/kW h 
Coal Power                           230/kW                 10/kW h 
LNG Power                            200/kW                 10/kW h 
Nuclear Power                        310/kW                  9/kW h 
Hydraulic Power                      640/kW                 13/kW h 



   (ENERUGI SEISAKU NO AYUMI TO TENBO, ANRE 1993) 

   MITI's Efforts To Acquire Information from Overseas 

   MITI participates in a cooperative research and information 
exchange program under the Committee on Energy Research and 
Technology (CERT) of the International Energy Agency (IEA).  MITI 
joined the advanced fuel cell program in April 1990. 

   AIST conducts comprehensive, in-depth surveys of trends in 
technology policies and R&amp;D projects in major countries, opinions on 

Japan's R&amp;D activities, and obstacles to international cooperation 
in R&amp;D.  AIST procures a wide variety of publications, reports, and 

literature on foreign technology, mainly from the United States and 
Europe (AIST 1993). 

   Another Fuel Cell Development Program 

   The Ministry of Transport will begin development of vessels 
powered by fuel cells starting in FY94.  The ministry plans to 
establish an organization jointly with major vessel manufacturers, 
including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy 
Industries Co., in order to conduct a four-year plan to design, 
develop, and test a prototype vessel.  The R&amp;D budget projected for 

this plan is 400 million yen ($3.6 million) per year and will be 
shared equally by the government and the private sector.  The 
ministry aims to develop a 20-meter-class prototype vessel in four 
years (NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 5 Jan 94). 

   Attachment 1: 


               NEDO'S FUEL CELL DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE 

              81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 

  PAFC        Basic research 

                     20O-kW &amp; IMW plant development 
                                              Commercialization 
                                              (1 MW &amp; 5 MW) 
                    Dispersed type 
                             On-site type 
  MCFC        Basic research 
                        10-kW stack development 
                                 100-kW stack development 
                                                   1-MW plant 
development 

  SOFC        Basic research 
                                       100-W stack development 
                                                 Above 10-kW stack 
development 

  PEFC                                           Basic research 
(1-kW stack) 

(Undecided) 
                 (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 SEP 93) 




     Attachment 2: 


     FUEL CELL R&amp;D PARTICIPANTS 



ANRE/AIST 
     NEDO             PAFC Develop.  PAFC Consortium, Fuji Electric, 
                                     Co., Toshiba, Hokkaido Electric 
                                     Power Co., Tohoku EPC, Tokyo 
                                     EPC, Chubu EPC, Hokuriku EPC, 
                                     Kansai EPC, Chugoku EPC, 
                                     Shikoku EPC, Kyushu EPC, 
                                     Central Research Inst. of 
                                     Electric Power Industry 
                                     (CRIEPI), Tokyo Gas Co., Toho 
                                     Gas Co., Osaka Gas Co., Seibu 
                                     Gas Co., Inst. of Applied 
                                     Energy 

                      MCFC Develop.  MCFC Consortium, Hitachi Ltd., 
                                     Ishikawaj ima-Harima Heavy 
                                     Industries, Mitsubishi Electric 
                                     Corp. (MELCO), Yokogawa 
                                     Electric Corp., Fuji Electric 
                                     Co., Ube Industries, Ebara 
                                     Corp., Chiyoda Chemical 
                                     Engineering &amp; Construction Co., 

                                     Toshiba, Kobe Steel, Toyo 
                                     Engineering, Institute of 
                                     Electric Power Industry, Japan 
                                     Research &amp; Development Center 
                                     for Metals, Mitsubishi 
                                     Materials, Nippon Kokan, Nissin 
                                     Steel Co., Sumitomo Metal 
                                     Mining Co., Kawasaki Heavy 
                                     Industries, Matsushita 
                                     Electric, Electric Power Dev. 
                                     Co. 

                      SOFC Develop.  Fuji Electric, Sanyo Electric, 
                                     Fine Ceramics Center, Fujikura 
                                     Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy 
                                     Industries, Murata Mfg. Co., 
                                     Mitsui Engineering &amp; Ship- 
                                     building Co., CRIEPI, Electric 
                                     Power Dev. Co., JRCM, Sumitomo 
                                     Precision Products Co., 
                                     Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Kobe 
                                     Steel, Kubota Corp., Ebara 
                                     Corp. 

                      PFC Develop.   Toshiba, MELCO, Sanyo Electric, 
                                     Asahi Chemical Industry Co., 
                                     Asahi Glass Co., Hitachi, Ltd., 
                                     Sumitomo Electric Industries, 
                                     Aisin Seiki Co., Imura Research 
                                     Institute for Materials 
                                     Development 

       Government Institutes         Electrotechnical Lab. 
                                     Government Industrial Research 
                                     Institute in Osaka, National 
                                     Institute of Materials &amp; 
                                     Chemical Research, National 
                                     Institute for Resources and 
                                     Environment 

                 (NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN 29 SEP 93) 




     (AUTHORS: ANGEL, GRAY.  FOR QUESTIONS AND/OR COMMENTS, PLEASE 
CALL CHIEF, PACIFIC RIM BRANCH AT (703) 733-6346). 
GIG/7FEB/TENF/ECONF/TID/jf 10/0734Z FEB 

