BFN 

  [Excerpts] About 40 European foreign ministers are meeting 
in Paris today and tomorrow for a conference which, in one 
year's time, is supposed to lead to a pact of stability in 
Europe. [passage omitted] 
  If diplomats call it the Balladur Pact it is because the 
idea 
of the conference was launched by the French prime minister. He 
hopes everything will be over by the end of this year, that is, 
before the presidential elections. The prime minister spoke 
about his project to Philippe Harbart: 
  [Begin recording] [Balladur] This project will be successful 
if, as I hope, all the countries involved sign agreements 
between neighbors recognizing their borders and guaranteeing the 
rights of minorities. What is required for its success is very 
simple. For some countries this means complicated problems. 
Some countries have minorities who speak the same language and 
live in many neighboring countries. This means there are 
difficult problems. But this is the criterion. Will we able to 
solve -- in one year, I hope -- border and minority problems in 
all the European countries, up to the Russian border? This is 
it. 
  [Harbart] Why is Bosnia not on the agenda? 
  [Balladur] As far as the former Yugoslavia is concerned, 
France has made many efforts, last year in particular. France 
proposed the harsher sanctions voted against Serbia. It 
proposed creating safe areas protected by UN soldiers. It also 
put forward the peace plan. France is the country with the 
highest number of soldiers in Bosnia. Really, no one can teach 
France lessons. We have carried out our duty and even more than 
that. Today, we French have the right to tell all those 
involved -- those fighting on the ground and the big powers -- 
that a peace plan has been prepared and it must now be adopted. 
Otherwise, France cannot keep such an important force in Bosnia 
forever. [end recording] 

