BFN 

  [Text] Deputy Prime Minister Amnuai Wirawan has asked the 
Office of the Narcotics Control Board (ONCB) and the Bank of 
Thailand to set the scope of the proposed money laundering law 
in a way that will not affect the country's financial system, 
according to government spokesman Aphisit Wetchachiwa. 
  Amnuay told the council of economic ministers on Monday the 
two agencies had also been instructed to consider whether the 
proposed legislation should target drug traffickers alone or 
include other criminal groups as well, Aphisit said. 
  Members of other crime syndicates, such as those involved in 
prostitution and the smuggling of contraband and war weapons, 
are also known to launder their profits through legitimate banks 
and financial institutions using the same methods as drug 
traffickers. 
  Government leaders have said they agree with the proposal by 
anti-narcotics officials to introduce a money laundering law, 
provided that such a move does not infringe on individual 
freedoms. 
  Prime Minister Chuan Likphai said he approved of the idea in 
principle because a money laundering law would prevent dishonest 
people converting their ill-gotten wealth into legal currencies. 
  Anti-drug officials say that without such a law, drug 
traffickers will continue to flourish through their illegal 
trade. 
  ONCB staff say many major traders in illicit drugs are 
beyond 
the reach of the law because law enforcement officials do not 
have hard evidence to link them to the crime. 

