BFN 

<F P=106> [Article by Y.C. Tsai] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, April 12 (CNA) -- The Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs issued a three-point statement Tuesday [12 April] 
expressing deep regret and dissatisfaction over the U.S. 
imposition of trade sanctions on Taiwan's wildlife products. 
  On Monday, U.S. President Bill Clinton issued an order 
prohibiting import of wildlife specimens and products from 
Taiwan in retaliation for Taiwan's alleged continued trade in 
rhino horns and tiger bone. 
  The Foreign Ministry called the sanctions "obviously unfair 
and unjust," and criticized Washington for ignoring Taiwan's 
effort in wildlife conservation, which "is far greater than that 
of the neighboring countries or areas in this region." 
  The ministry, however, reiterated that Taiwan remains 
"determined and committed to the cause of wildlife conservation 
in spite of the unilateral U.S. sanctions. 
  Moreover, the ministry urged all ROC [Republic of China] 
citizens "to recognize the global trend of conservation and 
comply with the pertinent laws and regulations in full 
cooperation with the government by refraining from smuggling, 
trading, consuming, exchanging, or possessing endangered species 
and their derivatives so as to dissolve the international 
pressure of sanctions." 
  The sanctions will reportedly result in U.S.$20 million to 
U.S.$25 million in annual losses for Taiwan and will limit 
exports of farmed crocodile skins, orchids and farmed coral, 
local trade officials said. 
  Sanctions will take effect in 30 days and will continue 
until 
December 1994, when the U.S. will review conservation programs 
in Taiwan and decide whether to extend the import prohibitions. 

