Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed article: "Statement by Vanni D'Archirafi on </F>
Delay in Schengen Agreement"; as released by Brussels TEXTLINE 
database] 
  [Text] In a statement on the new delay in enforcement of 
the Schengen Agreement on the abolition of controls on people at 
borders, European Commissioner Raniero Vanni d'Archirafi began 
by saying that the "true value" of technical difficulties that 
have been an obstacle to the system should be taken into 
account. No political meaning (which they do not have or, if at 
all, only very slightly) should be attributed to them. Once 
more, Mr. Vanni d'Archirafi stressed what a difficult exercise 
this was, mainly because the member states do not all make the 
same interpretation of the former Article 8a (now Article 7a) on 
the abolition of controls on people at the borders of the Union. 
Be this as it may, Mr. Vanni d'Archirafi sees some "hopeful 
elements." These mainly lie in the attitude of the German Chair 
of the Schengen Group (until end June), in the fact that "even 
Austria" has officially asked for observer status with the 
Schengen Group, and in indications according to which "it is not 
to be ruled out that the Danish position may develop along the 
same lines." 
  Furthermore, the Commissioner recalled that "at least 95 
percent, if not 97 or 98 percent, of free movement has already 
been achieved." Although some controls still exist (mainly 
because security problems have not been settled), the right of 
free movement is not disputed. He went on to say that the 
European Commission has proved its will to take concrete 
initiatives at the appropriate moment by proposing decisions 
concerning visas and the convention on external frontiers, and 
it plans to make other proposals in close sequence over coming 
months. Despite the above explanations, the judgment of MEPs 
[member of European Parliament] on the European Commission's 
attitude is very severe. If, by European elections in June, 
Schengen is not in force, then the European Commission will have 
failed on one of the most important questions, said German 
Christian Democrat Karl von Wogau for whom the present situation 
is a "scandal." Mr. Jarzembowski, also German Christian 
Democrat, agreed that the "Commission has failed," and that the 
purely intergovernmental path which had been chosen also failed: 
European Union, he said, needs Community solutions, and the 
European Parliament is ready to contribute. The MEP moreover 
encouraged Italy, Greece and Portugal to overcome the delays in 
the practical implementation of the Schengen Accord and those 
countries not able to accede to the Accord at least adopt 
security measures comparable to those planned for the Schengen 
countries, and insisted on the need for border controls to be 
lifted before the summer vacations. Belgian Socialist Mr. Van 
Outrive urged the Commission to be clear over the proposals 
concerning the third pillar of Maastricht. Is it still of any 
use for the Commission to take part in work over Schengen? he 
wondered. Are you mocking us, Monsieur le Commissaire? asked the 
Dutch Liberal Mr. Wijsenbeek. You tell us you will make 
proposals, he complained, well that is your duty; you must act, 
otherwise you must go. Would you be ready to refuse to show 
your passport and if necessary take the authorities who continue 
to control people at borders to court? asked Mr. Verhagen, Dutch 
Christian-Democrat. You discredit yourself in claiming that 
free movement was 95 percent guaranteed, as its a `total lack of 
knowledge of reality,' said the French Liberal Mr. Delorozoy to 
the Commissioner (who repeated that free movement and control 
should not be confused). As for Mr. Froment-Meurice, he spoke 
out against the "totally unfounded accusations" according to 
which France is alleged to be responsible for Schengen not 
functioning. It is untrue, he said: The system did not work 
because the permanent working party (made up of directors for 
transmissions from the interior ministries of the eight Schengen 
countries) "had no pattern." It is not even a question of 
intergovernmental, but of "infra-intergovernmental," the MEP 
noted, shouting, "for God's sake, let's no longer lock ourselves 
into the intergovernmental." 
  The European Commissioner tried to defend himself from the 
criticisms, notably by pointing out that the "accompanying 
measures" necessary to implement Schengen were not being 
applied. I make no promise as to dates, I never have, he added, 
but I hope in the coming months. And he quoted the Italian 
writer Manzoni to defend his cautious approach, having one of 
his characters say "forward Pedro, but with wisdom." 

