Article   Type:BFN 

  [Text] The crude birth rate, which was 41.7 per 1,000 from 
1951-61, decreased to 29 per 1,000 in 1992. The crude death 
rate, which was 22.8 from 1951-61, decreased to 10 in 1992. The 
total fertility rate, which was 5.97 from 1951-61, decreased to 
3.6 in 1991. The infant mortality rate for the country as a 
whole has decreased from 146 per 1,000 live births from 1961-79 
to 71 in 1992. While these are significant achievements, the 
increase in population is still staggering. The government 
attaches the highest importance to reducing the population 
growth rate. There is a national consensus to promote family 
welfare. For this, multidimensional and multisectoral efforts 
involving state governments, opinion leaders, nongovernmental 
organizations, and all sections of society are essential. All 
political parties must unanimously exhort the people to adopt 
the small-family norms and transform the family program into a 
mass movement. The National Development Council [NDC] has 
endorsed the recommendation of the Committee on Population it 
set up earlier. The NDC also decided to hold wider 
consultations with the chief ministers and opinion makers on the 
future course of action needed to implement the NDC's 
recommendations. This will be done shortly. 
  We are fully aware of the links between the development 
process and protection of the environment. The need for the 
conservation and wise use of natural resources is reflected in 
our major river cleaning and pollution abatement programs, as 
well as in our forest and wildlife policies. While 
participating in the continuing international debate on 
biodiversity, climate change, and increasing desertification, we 
have kept in focus the basic issues -- raised at the 1992 Rio 
summit -- of access to resources and technology. Within the 
government, our development efforts will take full note of all 
our environmental concerns. 
  The pace of technological changes and the need to shift to 
technologies that are environmentally compatible imposes various 
demands on us. Restrictions placed on the transfer of 
technology require us to rely more on our own talents. The 
government is committed to encourage this to happen by tapping 
the great potential that the country possesses. 

