BFN 

  [Text] In a statement just released, the Cabinet of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran expressed its condolences following 
this tragedy and announced that 21 June would be a national day 
of mourning throughout the country. The text of the statement 
follows: 
  In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate. We 
belong to God and to Him we return. On the anniversary of the 
martyrdom of the lord of the freedom-loving people of the world, 
Husayn Bin Ali, peace be upon him, and the devoted children and 
followers of that immaculate imam, and when the lovers of the 
school of Husayn and followers of the of guardianship in 
mourning at the shrine of the honorable descendent of the lord 
of the martyrs, His Holiness Ali Bin Musa al-Rida, the cowardly 
monafeqin, who have not stopped committing crimes since the 
victory of revolution, once again in a cowardly act shed the 
blood of the mourners of Husayn, just as the hated idol regime 
which shed the blood of mourners on the day of Ashura. 
  The Mojahedin-e Khalq martyred and injured a number of 
innocent people at the shrine of His Holiness Rida, peace be 
upon him. Obviously, history shall not forget this great 
disrespect to the position of velayat and imamate of His 
Holiness Rida, peace be upon him, in whose holy shrine and on 
the day of Husayn's Ashura this crime took place. The hand of 
divine revenge will squeeze the throats of all evil cowards, who 
have planned and carried out such a horrific crime. The cabinet 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, while expressing 
congratulations and condolences to the Lord of the Age; his 
rightful representative the esteemed leader; the sources of 
emulation; grand ayatollahs; the heroic, martyr-nurturing and 
brave people of Islamic Iran; the lovers of the school of Husayn 
and the followers of Imam Khomeyni, God's blessings be upon him, 
declares tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 June, a day of national mourning 
throughout the country; and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday as 
days of mourning for Khorasan Province. The cabinet prays for 
forgiveness for the great martyrs, for patience for the families 
of the martyrs and for rapid recovery of the injured. 

