BFN 

  [Excerpts] Dushanbe, 22 Jun (ITAR-TASS) -- The government 
forces of Tajikistan have destroyed a major stronghold of the 
armed opposition in the foothills of the Pamirs. In the course 
of a two-week operation, which ended recently, several 
antigovernment groups that operated in the gorges of Garmskiy 
and Jirgatalskiy regions were neutralised. Hundreds of weapons 
and large quantities of ammunition were discovered along with 
modern radio equipment of mainly foreign make. According to 
military sources in Dushanbe, Tajikistan's antigovernment forces 
suffered significant losses in clashes with subunits of the 
republican defense and security ministries -- over 20 opposition 
members were killed. Unfortunately, there were also losses among 
servicemen of the Defense Ministry, but the source did not 
specify. [passage omitted] 
  Describing the situation in the area of the Pamir mountains 
and in the Republic's mountain regions to the east of Dushanbe, 
the source called it complex, but quite manageable by the 
government forces. The militia and Security Ministry have set 
up checkpoints in the area's settlements and on all major roads, 
and the search is under way in gorges for militants who could be 
hiding there. 
  Meanwhile, independent sources believe that the 
normalization 
of the situation in Tajikistan's eastern regions is a long way 
away. According to them, the armed opposition, which calls 
itself the partisan resistance movement, has only temporarily 
given in to the onslaught of government forces in the mountains 
and is currently redeploying its forces. 

