BFN 

  [Text] Tokyo, April 14 KYODO -- Japan and the United States 
should hold informal talks for an early resumption of the 
stalled trade "framework" talks, a senior trade ministry 
official said Thursday. 
  The two countries are striving to break the impasse over the 
framework talks through official meetings such as planned talks 
between Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata and U.S. Trade 
Representative Mickey Kantor in Marrakech, Morocco, said Hideaki 
Kumano, vice international trade and industry minister. 
  "But it is also necessary for Tokyo to make efforts to 
improve the situation through informal talks," Kumano told a 
press conference. 
  "The Japanese Government is doing everything it can to pave 
the way for reopening the framework talks," Kumano said. 
  Earlier reports said the government seeks to reach a basic 
accord with the U.S. on resuming the framework talks before the 
Naples summit of the seven major industrialized countries in 
July. 
  Kumano confirmed that the ministerial meeting of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Marrakech will take up 
wide-ranging global trade issues, including a linkage between 
trade and labor rights. 
  But he refrained from clarifying Japan's stance on labor 
issues in global trade. 
  The U.S. and France have proposed that the World Trade 
Organization (WTO), a body to replace GATT, should deal with 
forced labor, child labor, poor working conditions and other 
labor issues, a stance strongly opposed by some developing 
countries. 

