BFN 

  [Text] Economic Planning Agency [EPA] Director-General 
Terasawa announced on 24 June that a research group has been 
established within the Agency to analyze the economic effects of 
coming deregulation. The research group will calculate expected 
economic growth and effects of deregulations in such areas as 
the information and communications business, including possible 
effects resulting from the review of the Large-Scale Retail 
Stores Law. The EPA will make the results of the research 
available to the public with aim of helping to promote 
deregulation. EPA Director-General Terasawa said "the research 
report should be worked out at an early date; otherwise, it will 
be meaningless. We will work out the report in two or three 
months at latest." 
  The reseach activity will be carried out by "Rakuichi-Rakuza 
Research Group" (with Takezo Ishikawa, Mitsui Marine and Fire 
Insurance Co., Ltd chairman, as its head]. The group held its 
first meeting on the afternoon of 24 June. As the first step, 
the group plans to study possible effects of the government's 
deregulation measures to be hammered out in late June, with 
emphasis on the areas of housing, information, and distribution. 
  The following news items were taken from the Tokyo 
Digitized Information Database, which translates and summarizes 
in English Japanese press reports related to Japan's 
scientific/technical industries. This material will also be 
carried in the FBIS publication JAPAN SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY. 

