Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by S. N. Fedorov, A. I. Ivashina, Ye. G. Antonova, </F>
N. K. Korshunova, N. A. Bozhkov, V. M. Karpov, and G. A. Bezruk; 
MNTK ``Mikrokhirurgiya glaza'' [Eye Microsurgery], Moscow; UDC 
617.753.1-089:612.015.35] 
  [Abstract] Studying the processes of compound heat transfer 
and biochemical transformations in the coagulated area are of 
fundamental importance in providing a scientific framework for 
surgery, predicting its outcome, optimizing its conditions, and 
reducing post-operative complications. This paper discusses a 
mathematical model of thermokeratocoagulation in terms of 
thermochemistry and shows how operating conditions may affect 
the size of the tissue damage zone. The authors developed the 
TERMO-K program system for the IBM PC AT to run their model. The 
user inputs data about the operating conditions and the design 
features of the needle, and the model predicts the size and 
character of the resultant tissue damage zone by simulating the 
thermal coagulator operation. From the model, the authors found 
linear relationships between increases in the initial needle 
temperature and the exposure time and tissue damage. They also 
found a positive correlation between the radial size of 
coagulation and its volume. In a comparison of modeled results 
with experimental studies, the authors found qualitative 
agreement in the effects of initial needle temperature on the 
radial size of coagulation. The thermochemical model and the 
TERMO-K system can be used to refine the 
thermokeratocolagulation procedure and may be adapted for 
analysis of intrastromal keratocoagulation, laser coagulation, 
keratoconus therapy, and other surgical techniques involving 
thermal effects on the cornea. Figures 6; references 17: 10 
Russian, 7 Western. 

