Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Lilian Wu] </F>
  [Text] Taipei, Jan. 17 (CNA) -- Scientists from Taiwan and 
Mainland China met at a seminar on technology and industrial 
goods which opened Monday [17 January] at the Taipei 
International Convention Center. 
  Lin Chuei-chou, president of the Industrial Technology 
Research Institute (ITRI), said at the opening ceremony that 
scholars and experts from both sides of the Taiwan Strait could 
use the meeting as a basis for more contacts and exchanges. 
  The two-day seminar is sponsored by the ITRI, China Steel 
Corp. and COMMERCIAL TIMES newspaper and will focus on steel, 
materials and intellectual property rights. 
  A 24-member mainland delegation, headed by Zhou Guangzhao, 
president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, arrived in Taiwan 
Sunday to participate in the seminar. 
  Besides members of the academy, the delegation also included 
officials of leading steel companies in the mainland. 
  Zhou said upon his arrival that he hoped cross-strait 
sci-tech exchanges would cover not just basic, applied and 
industrial science, but nuclear science as well. 
  The head of the mainland's highest research institute also 
said he was happy to see cross-strait exchanges have increased 
in the past few years. 
  Zhou revealed that 10 Taiwan scientists will board a 
mainland 
research ship in April to conduct research in the South China 
Sea. 
  He also noted that Taiwan has more experience with nuclear- 
generated electricity, and he believed the mainland could learn 
from the experience. 
  During their stay in Taiwan, Zhou's group will also visit 
academic facilities in Taiwan. 

