Language: <F P=105> Thai </F>
Article Type:BFN 

  [Excerpt] Khun Sa, president of the Shan State Restoration 
Council, spoke in an exclusive interview with PHUCHATKAN. He 
said that he sent letters to U.S. President Bill Clinton and 
Thai Prime Minister Chuan Likphai in October and asked for 
cooperation from the United States, the United Nations, and the 
Thai Government for his efforts to stop opium growing and heroin 
production in the Shan State. Khun Sa, or Chang Si-fu in 
Chinese, during the interview from his stronghold in the central 
town of the Shan state which is opposite Thailand's Mae Hong Son 
Province, said that as far as he knew, President Clinton had 
forwarded the matter to the Thai prime minister and asked the 
latter to study ways to assist the Thai Yai ethnic people in 
Shan State to stop growing poppies. Khun Sa said of his bid to 
lobby for financial funding that he did not have much hope that 
there would be any assistance from international organizations 
because most organizations only have tried to paint a negative 
picture of him as an international outlaw. 
  Khun Sa, however, did not entirely dismiss a chance for 
success for his crop replacement plan for the Shan State. He 
said the campaign to reduce poppy growing and finally root out 
opium cultivation in Shan State will materialize within five 
years if there is money for him to implement the crops 
replacement plan and vocational training projects. Most 
importantly, he said, the Burmese military government must also 
stop supporting poppy growing and heroin production. He said: 
"If opium growing is eliminated in Shan State while Burma 
continues to allow it, the Thai Yai people in Shan State will be 
forced to run away and join with Burmese troops so that they can 
continue to make a living by growing poppies." [passage omitted 
on Khun Sa's political goals] 

