BFN 

  [Text] A Tatmadaw [Defense Services] column of the Eastern 
Command, acting on information, seized 3333.96 litres of acetic 
anhydride, used in refining heroin, from about 60 members of 
Khun Sa's SURA [Shan United Revolutionary Army] armed group 
after a 20-minute engagement with them on 13 May near Wunlon 
Village in Loilem Township. 
  The acid was in 126 containers. 
  The Tatmadaw column also impounded 62 pack-saddles from the 
armed group which fled in disarray after the battle. The seized 
acid is believed to be destined for opium refineries of Khun 
Sa's armed group, which are situated on the Myanmar 
[Burma]-Thailand border. 
  Acetic anhydride is an essential element in refining heroin. 
A kilo or a litre of the liquid is needed for producing a kilo 
of heroin. 
  Over 4,000 litres of acetic anhydride were also seized 
together with culprits from a truck which parked at Yayayekwin 
Ward, Taunggyi on 15 November last year. The acid was on its 
way to refineries of Khun Sa's Loimaw armed group, notorious for 
their drug trafficking and opium refining, which is their main 
business. 
  A Tatmadaw column of Eastern Command while on security duty 
also seized another 415.8 litres and nine horses and mules from 
a caravan on 5 December 1992 when they found a group of 
smugglers heading for the border near Narpaw Village in Kengtung 
Township. 
  The Tatmadaw and People's Police Force members are exposing 
and arresting drug smugglers who are trying to transport 
precursor chemicals to Khun Sa's SUA [Shan United Army]-SURA 
group who are selling their refined heroin on international drug 
market. 

