BFN 

<F P=106> [By unidentified ITAR-TASS correspondent] </F>
  [Text] Moscow May 11 TASS -- The population of Russia, 
which presently numbers 148.4 million, is steadily decreasing. 
Over the past year, it fell by 300,000 people. 
  According to the State Statistics Committee, this trend is 
revealed in the country's 49 regions accounting for over 60 per 
cent of Russia's entire population. The decline was especially 
marked last year in the Chukchiy autonomous district, the 
Magadan and Kamchat regions, where is ranged from four to nine 
per cent. Demographers see the main reason for it in a sharp 
decrease in the birth rate, with the death rate continuously 
growing. Thus, the birth rate shrank by 220,000 people, while 
the death rate increased by 330,000. The situation is even more 
alarming in northwestern Russia and in most of the central 
regions, where the death rate exceeded the birth one by 2 to 2.4 
times. At the moment, the former indicator is less than the 
latter one only in North Caucasian republics, the Chukchiy 
autonomous district and in the Tyumen region. 
  Experts note that the natural decrease in population is to a 
certain degree compensated for by ever increasing migration. 
Inter- state migration nearly doubled over the past year and 
reached a post-war high of 430,000 people. It is noteworthy 
that almost two thirds of the country's territories accepted 
migrants. The inflow of migrants to such areas as the central 
black-earth region, the Krasnodar territory, the Rostov and 
Oryol regions exceeded by three times the average level across 
Russia. At the same time, the population outflow from the 
Chukchiy and Kamchat peninsulas, the Sakhalin island, the 
Chechen and Ingush Republics remained quite intensive. 

