BFN 

<F P=106> [By Bruce Gilley] </F>
  [Text] Zhejiang province has passed tough new laws against 
child labour, a sign that the problem, long denied by Beijing, 
may be on the rise. 
  The province has been targeted by humanitarian groups in the 
past for widespread use of children in its booming township and 
private enterprises. 
  Officials in Zhejiang's southern coastal city of Ruian 
uncovered 102 child workers in private enterprises in a single 
day in December 1991. 
  The new laws, reported in the China Labour News, specify 
fines of up to 15,000 renminbi [Rmb] (HK$13,320) per child for 
enterprises employing children 16 years or under. In cases of 
children killed while working, enterprises are fined Rmb20,000 
and could face closure. They must also pay parents or guardians 
up to Rmb20,000 in compensation as well as Rmb400 for funeral 
expenses. 
  While China's Foreign Ministry has denied the existence of 
child labour in the country, semi-official groups have admitted 
its emergence as economic opportunities draw children -- 
especially those from the countryside -- into factories. 
  The vice-secretary of the China Youth Development 
Foundation, 
Xi Jieying, said in 1991 that child labour was "becoming 
serious", especially in Zhejiang and Fujian. 
  An estimated 4 million children between the ages of six and 
19 (about 2.5 percent of the total) drop out of school every 
year in China, an ample pool for sweatshop factories to draw on. 
  Labour analysts said the new laws in Zhejiang, which are 
substantially tougher than those in other parts of the country, 
reflect a general drive to solve labour problems in order to 
defuse criticism of rapid industrial growth. 
  "The problem of child labour in China is surfacing now which 
gives more legitimacy to opponents of reforms," Pian Chua, of 
the Hong Kong-based labour rights group Asia Monitor, said. 
  "The issue relates to internal stability as well as 
international criticism, so they have to deal with it," he said. 
  Chua said the passage of new laws would be an important 
step. 
  "It may take a while to eradicate the problem but it is an 
important deterrent for some violators and it gives local 
authorities more power to carry out inspections," he said. 
  The State Council passed its first law banning child labour 
in April 1991. Since then provinces have been allowed to pass 
specific sanctions and implementation measures. 
  The issue of child labour in China first came to 
international attention at the end of 1991 when U.S. labour and 
consumer groups called for a boycott of toys made in China 
during the Christmas season over allegations of the use of child 
labour. 
  Subsequent investigations by Hong Kong groups found only 
scattered evidence of child labour in toy factories but the 
problem was already well documented. 
  A survey of foreign-funded enterprises by Guangdong 
authorities in Shenzhen and Dongguan in 1988 found that 70 
percent were illegally employing children. 
  A subsequent year-long campaign in the province uncovered 
3,206 children employed illegally and authorities later cracked 
a group organising the trafficking of children from Guangxi to 
factories in the special economic zones of Guangdong. 

