BFN 

<F P=106> [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and </F>
Mikhail Melnik] 
  [Text] Kiev 21 May TASS -- The Ukrainian Navy press 
centre protested on Saturday plans to transfer to Sevastopol "a 
reinforced tank battalion and an anti-aircraft anti-missile 
battalion of the coastal defence formation of the Black Sea 
Fleet in the near future." 
  A statement released by the press centre earlier today said 
that the battalions will be included in the black Sea Fleet 
marine brigade. 
  It also said that part of their officers have already moved 
to Sevastopol for permanent residence. The statement stressed 
that without notification and consultation the Black Sea Fleet 
commanders adopt a decision to bring in strike forces in 
Sevastopol. The press centre voiced concern about the fact that 
the Black Sea Fleet, which is under direct control of the 
presidents of Russia and Ukraine, has made it its practice to 
conduct exercises, move troops and send large numbers of ships 
to sea without notification of the Ukrainian Side. 
  The press centre expressed "strong protest against the 
unilateral actions of the Black Sea Fleet commanders which 
hamper the stabilisation of the situation in Sevastopol and the 
Crimean region, and hinder the development of normal and 
genuinely friendly relations between Ukraine and Russia." 
  The Ukrainian Navy "confirms its readiness to solve the 
existing problems in a civilised way and hopes for the prudence 
of the Black Sea Fleet commanders, as well as all those on whom 
peace and calm on our land depends," the statement said. 

