BFN 

<F P=106> [Unattributed report: "Natality in Kosova Under the Target </F>
of Serbian Regime" -- issued by the Democratic League of Kosovo] 
  [Text] In spite of continued discrimination exercised by 
Serbian regime in the Kosova health system in order to reach 
"demographic equilibrium" Serbian doctors have recently publicly 
declared that they were not satisfied with the last three years 
achievements. 
  In order to gain in political life, Serb doctors call on 
Milosevic administration to radicalize their policy towards 
preventing the natality of Albanians. 
  Alexander Andrijevic, installed director of the maternity 
ward in the Clinic in Prishtina, told Serb-run Prishtina 
Television, that besides the measures taken up to date, "births 
for the Republic of Kosova continue and there is no sign that 
the rate of birth among the primitive world of Albanians will 
drop." 
  Recent public declarations of Andrijevic finally reveal 
their 
clear political intentions. He was determined to "stop this flow 
of babies," even if he must commit crimes. The project in which 
Andrijevic is engaged intends to control the birth rate by 
deciding how many babies should live and how many should die, 
how many Albanian women should undergo surgery in order to 
eliminate their uterus, etc. Yet, in order to reach some 
results, Andrijevic requires the assistance of Serbian 
administration, ends an article published by today's 
Prishtina-based BUJKU. 

