BFN 

  [Text] Havana, 2 Apr (PL) -- Cuban President Fidel Castro 
has met with Hao Jianxiu, PRC deputy minister in charge of the 
State Planning Commission, who represented the PRC at the Sixth 
Session of the Mixed Inter-Government Commission in Havana. 
  According to a GRANMA report, the interview allowed the two 
sides to exchange opinions on the future development of 
bilateral economic relations and took place in a cordial and 
friendly atmosphere, which is the primary feature of relations 
between Havana and Beijing. 
  GRANMA points out that on Friday, both sides concluded 
another successful round of Mixed Commission talks, at the end 
of which the Chinese deputy minister and Cuban Foreign Trade 
Minister Ricardo Cabrisas proceeded to sign a protocol that 
encompasses commercial trade goals for 1994. 
  The PRC delegation, which is headed by the high-ranking 
official, arrived in Havana last Sunday and has signed four 
other mutual cooperation agreements. The agreements are aimed 
at increasing the amount of Chinese food and medication being 
sent to Cuba in exchange for sugar. 
  According to GRANMA, Hao Jianxiu provided Fidel Castro with 
a 
full explanation of the situation in China in light of the 
agreements arrived at during the 14th CPC Congress. At the same 
time, Fidel Castro sent warm and fraternal greetings to PRC 
President Jiang Zemin and to State Council Premier Li Peng in 
response to the best wishes sent by that Asian nation's leaders. 
  Carlos Lage, secretary of the Executive Committee of the 
Cuban Council of Ministers, and Cabrisas represented Cuba at the 
meeting. 
  The newspaper adds that each countries' respective 
ambassadors, Jose A. Guerra Menchero and Xu Yicong; other 
members of the Chinese mission; and representatives of Chinese 
enterprises involved in economic relations with Cuba were also 
present during the meeting. 
  The Caribbean island is Beijing's No. 2 trading partner in 
Latin America. In 1993, trade between the two countries 
surpassed $400 million and included the sale of Chinese rice, 
bicycles, and machinery spare parts in exchange for Cuban 
nickel, biotechnology products, citrus products, and sugar. 

