CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by Lembit Tepp: "Twice As Many Die Than Are Born in </F>
the Cities"] 
  [Text] 
  One result of the confusion caused by Estonia's 
transition to market economy is the sudden drop in the nation's 
birthrate and an increase in mortality. After 1988, the number 
of births started to decline rapidly. In 1989, compared to 1988, 
768 fewer children were born, in 1990, this number was 2,752, in 
1991 5,740, in 1992 7,071, and in 1993 as many as 9,757 fewer 
children were born. 
  The number of children born in 1993 made up only 61 
percent of the 1988 figure. 
  (This is, however, a preliminary figure and could be revised 
somewhat). At the same time, the number of deaths, compared to 
1988, was up by 1,079 in 1990, by 1,154 in 1991, by 1,554 in 
1992 and by 2,695 in 1993. The difference between the numbers of 
births and deaths, or the natural population growth, has been 
going down steadily after 1988, and became negative since 1991. 
When the nation's total population grew naturally by 6,509 
people in 1988, by 5,762 people in 1989 and by 2,778 people in 
1990, then, in 1991, the population decreased by 385, in 1992 by 
2,116 and in 1993, based on the birth and death registries, by 
5,943 people. 
  A sudden drop in the birth rate occurred at the beginning of 
1993, a significant increase in the number of deaths, compared 
to data for the same months of previous years, occurred during 
the periods from March to April and from June to September of 
1993, and during the last months--November and December, of 1992 
and 1993. When in 1991, the number of deaths registered for the 
months of December exceeded the number of births for the same 
month 1.3 times, and for December of 1992 1.5 times, then, in 
December of 1993, this factor was more than 1.9, and as high as 
2.1 in the cities. In January of 1994, also, the number of 
deaths exceeded the number of births by a factor of 1.7. Locally 
these figures were 2.6 for Narva, 2.2 for PÆarnu, and more 
than two times for Tallinn and the eastern Virmumaa district. 
Should such a trend continue, or even stabilize, Estonia's 
population will dimish by one half within one generation. 
  The reasons for this phenomenon are not found in the family, 
but in conteporary economic policies, that are causing: 
  an ever-widening gap between the income of most of the 
population and the prices of vital goods, 
  which has an especially painful grip on low-income families, 
unemployed and under-employed persons, and the elderly and 
handicapped. What can a married couple offer to their children 
if the take-home pay of the head of the family goes almost 
entirely for under-heated housing and a market basket limited to 
physiological necessities. But what happens if the spouse has to 
stay home with the child? 
  When, during 1992, the state was trying to prevent the 
situation for these groups from worsening by offsetting the 
rising cost of living through repeated increases in minimum 
wages--on which depend the amounts for child support, 
unemployment and retirement benefits then, since October of 
1992, the minimum wage has been frozen, along with child support 
and unemployment benefits, as well as support payments for the 
handicapped and the elderly. At the same time, prices of food 
items and necessities have been going up steadily. When the cost 
of a market basket to meet the minimal physiological needs of a 
person (which contains 7.6 kg of bread, 1.5 kg of sugar, 9.2 
liters of milk or kefir, 300 gm butter, 600 gm cheese, 2.3 kg 
meat, 600 gm vegetable oil, 15 eggs, 6.1 kg potatoes, 9.2 kg 
vegetables and 1.5 kg fruit a month) was 136 kroons in October 
of 1992, when minimum wage was established at 300 kroons a 
month, then, in December of 1993, it was 252 kroons, or up 1.85 
times. When, in October of 1992, state child support (90 kroons 
a month) could buy 0.66 minimum market basket's worth of food, 
then, in December of 1993, that figure was only 0.36. Up, in 
particular, are the prices for foods containing animal protein 
and vitamins, which are especially important for a growing child. 
  In January of 1994, compared to October of 1992, prices had 
gone up for pork 2.4 times, poultry and beef 2.1 times, beef 
liver 3.5 times, grade I cooking sausage 2.3 times, higher grade 
cooking sausage 2.0 times, higher grade liverwurst 2.5 times, 
blood sausage 2.8 times, cottage cheese more than two times, 
cheese more than 1.8 times, eggs 2.3 times, smoked and canned 
fish more than 1.8 times, canned soups with meat 2.5 times and 
without meat 2.4 times, green peas 1.8 times, bread made out of 
grade I wheat flour 2.9 times, and bread made out of higher 
grade wheat flour 2.3 times, rye bread close to 3 times, barley 
bread 2.3 times, string spaghetti 2.7 times. More conservative 
increases were noted for pasteurized 2.5 percent milk at close 
to 1.5 times, butter and sweet cream 1.1 times, sour cream 1.2 
times, kefir 1.7 times, fresh fish 1.2 times, potatoes 1.1 
times, carrots, 1.2 times, local apples 1.3 times, raisins 1.2 
times, farina 1.4 times, lemonade close to 1.5 times, soft candy 
1.1 to 1.5 times. Prices have dropped for sugar, coffee, 
buckwheat, rice and citrus fruit, which had been particularly 
high for a while. 
  Prices have also gone up on children's clothing, footwear, 
school supplies, medications, and community and other services 
geared to children. Prices for street shoes for children have 
gone up 2.8 times, childrens sneakers 2.9 times, underwear 2.4 
times, childrens' dresses 1.7 times, childrens' cotton socks 1.9 
times, tights, 1.7 times, childrens' sandals 1.5 times, jackets 
1.4 times, notebooks 1.7 times, and school lunches more than 1.4 
times. Prices of medications have gone up 3.1 times, on the 
average. Nursery school fees have gone up 1.5 times, electricity 
1.9 times, warm water 1.3 times, cold water 2.7 times, and 
sewage fees more than 3 times, for which children are charged at 
the same rate as adults. The cost of a three-room dwelling has 
already reached twice the amount of both minimum wage and the 
average pensioners' benefit for a month. Communal fees charged 
on children also exceed the state benefit for child support. 
  Prices of Goods Are Approaching World Market Prices, 
Even for Domestic Production, even though our wages are 15 
to 20 times lower than levels prevailing under world market 
pricing. It would be interesting to know who pockets the 
difference? For a great portion of the population, the 
purchasing power of the kroon has gone down to almost one half, 
but no compensation has been planned, since rescuing a drowning 
person is up to the one drowing. 
  In this situation, young people have chosen to avoid both 
marriage and childbirth, which cuts down on state expenditures 
on child support. Proceeds from the rising prices of items 
consumed by children have helped to meet the state's budget. 
  Since 9,757 fewer children were born in 1993, than there 
were 
in 1988, the state saved 8.8 million kroons on one-time birth 
support, while support payments to mothers also went down by 
42.2 million kroons. And, since after the year of 1989, 25,000 
fewer children were born overall, the state saves at least 27 
million kroons a year on child support. The recent increase in 
child support by 25 kroons for the second child and by 50 kroons 
for each child thereafter, does not save the population from 
economic genocide. Besides, the number of second children born 
is down to half of what it used to be, and the birth of a fourth 
child or beyond a rarity, indeed. 

