Language: <F P=105> Russian </F>
Article Type:CSO 

<F P=106> [Article by S. N. Fedorov, S. N. Bagrov, A. O. Aksenov, A. </F>
V. Osipov, A. V. Bubnov, N. F. Buraleva, Interbranch Scientific 
and Technical Complex Mikrokhirurgiya glaza; UDC 617.7-089] 
  [Abstract] Injury to the iris worsens considerably the 
post-traumatic process in ocular tissue, impairs visual 
function, and contributes to the development of corneal 
dystrophy, secondary glaucoma, and other complications that lead 
to work disability. Since reconstructive iridoplasty is one of 
the primary stages in the comprehensive treatment of 
anterior-segment pathology, the researchers here set out to 
evaluate the possibilities associated with optical 
reconstructive surgery involving artificial iris transplants 
developed at the Mikrokhirurgiya glaza complex. The transplant 
is prepared from a fundamentally new biosynthetic material -- a 
collagen copolymer with monomers of an acrylic series filled 
with inert dyes. In eight individuals, the clinical course of 
the postoperative period depended on the severity of the initial 
injury. In four individuals with earlier injury, local edema of 
the cornea in the scar area disappeared by the end of the second 
week. Stages 1 and 2 Tyndall phenomenon were no longer present 
by days 5 and 6 against the backdrop of steroid therapy. Minor 
hyperemia was observed for 5-6 days. Visual acuity improved to 
0.2-0.3 in four patients within a period of one week to three 
months. No specific complications were observed in the late 
postoperative period. Early postoperative response was less 
pronounced in two individuals with postsurgical colobomas. Two 
individuals with congenital cataract and aniridia, the 
postoperative course was uncomplicated. Visual acuity reached 
0.5 in two individuals, but vision was not completely restored, 
because of amblyopia. Figures 3, references 9: 8 Russian, 1 
Western. 


