Language: <F P=105> English </F>
Article Type:BFN 

<F P=106> [By Woranant Krongbunying in Koh Kong] </F>
  [Text] The Cambodian government has accepted a plan to 
construct a tourist resort and a casino in Koh Kong province as 
proposed by a group of Thai companies, Koh Kong Province deputy 
governor Pal San said on Saturday. 
  Speaking through an interpreter, San said the project had 
been approved recently but an official announcement had still to 
be made. 
  The project's construction plans are now being reviewed by 
the Cambodian Tourism Office, he said. 
  "Its construction can proceed once the review is completed. 
But it would be left in the hands of the Thai investors to 
decide when to commence construction," San said. 
  The project was initiated by the Wannachai Company. 
  But according to a local source, the project may not 
materialise because Thai investors are now having second 
thoughts about investing in Cambodia because of the Cambodian 
government's recent decision to grant special concessions to 
Singapore Airlines to fly to that country. 
  He said Oran's SK Air, which also has a license to operate 
one of the private airlines to Phnom Penh's Pochentong Airport 
until July this year, was planning to expand its service by 
bringing tourists from the capital city to Koh Kong province. 
  "But this plan is being shelved because the SK Air was 
unable 
to get a license to provide such a service," the source said. 
  San pointed out that as Koh Kong was set to become a tourist 
attraction the provincial authorities would welcome any 
investment projects proposed by foreign companies. 
  The selling point for the tourist, he said, would be the 
natural beauty and surroundings of the place. 
  At present, the most convenient way to travel to Koh Kong is 
by boat which takes around one and a half hours from Thailand's 
Trat province. Road travel is hardly possible due to the poor 
road conditions. 

