ROOTS SCHMOOTS: JOURNEYS AMONG JEWS by Howard Jacobson Viking Pounds 16.99,
502 pages
PIETY AND POWER: THE WORLD OF JEWISH FUNDAMENTALISM by David Landau Secker &amp;
Warburg Pounds 20, 502 pages
RATIONALISTS and modernisers par excellence, secular Jews have observed with
varying degrees of puzzlement and dismay the growing influence of a
self-confident Jewish religious Right, unabashed in its strident
condemnation of secular humanism, assimilation to the larger society, and
such Enlightenment values as pluralism and democracy.
Each of these books is a partial response to the phenomenon of Jewish
religious revival, although Howard Jacobson would doubtless deny that was
what moved him, 'the least loyal, the least nostalgic of Jews' to embark at
this time on a 'Jewjewjourney' that he insists had no purpose other than
pursuing non-belonging, the confirmation of homelessness, of feeling alien.
Despite himself, he succeeds in this paradoxical enterprise, coming to no
significant conclusions about his Jewishness, experiencing no epiphany, yet
revealing along his uneasy trajectory from Stamford Hill to New York's 47th
Street, from Jerusalem to Lithuania, his quintessentially Jewish propensity
to remember past wrongs, argue with God, and feel superior to and often
infuriated by his fellow-Jews.
Jacobson's consistent pugnaciousness leads him into abrasive, sometimes
amusing encounters with representatives of the Chassidic community, hotel
staff almost everywhere, Americans of several varieties, but above all with
Israel itself, which he describes as 'not just a charity but a sort of
summer work-camp' and spiritual playground for American Jews. Unable to
forego an anecdote, sometimes of doubtful relevance to his main theme,
Jacobson can be wryly funny, always loudly dissatisfied, angry with 'the
snarling God' of the Jews and with the Orthodox guardians of tradition.
To his surprise, Jacobson is nonetheless touched by the warmth of worship in
a gay synagogue in Los Angeles; and admits that amid the overgrown stones of
the Jewish cemetery in Serhai, the little Lithuanian town from which his
grandfather fled to England, he feels both 'upset' and somehow linked to his
ancestors. When the knockabout humour stops, Jacobson seems rather sad in
his evident inability to fathom what being Jewish now actually means to him:
his Jewish identity, remote from the texts and rituals that sustained the
tradition over millennia, amounts to gastronomic memories, a few fragments
of Yiddish, a general restlessness; the grand Jewish prophetic passion to
repair the world has on the evidence of Roots Scmoots been diluted to mere
tetchiness.
David Landau, for his part, describes in occasionally numbing detail the
lives and practices of the faithful adherents to the Law, those Orthodox
zealots who consider themselves the only real Jews left, numbering perhaps
650,000 among the approximately 13m Jews in the world. This highly visible
minority within a minority has, thanks to its fecundity and aggressive
militancy, won a pivotal role in Israeli politics, aligning its adherents
with the political far Right there and in the Diaspora, and even forging
mutually advantageous alliances with fundamentalist Christian groups in
several countries. Although the requirements of Jewish law are regarded by
these Jews as immutable, they are in fact adopting ever-stricter
observances, especially in Western countries, thus further distancing
themselves from assimilated Jews and contributing to what Landau sees as the
strong possibility of an outright schism in the Jewish world.
Moreover, the birth-rate among the ultra-Orthodox is much higher than among
other Jews: in their international yet close-knit community, seven or eight
children are usual, and the mere two-child family considered a pitiable sign
of dysfunction. Their strict ritual, deliberately anachronistic speech and
dress, absolute insistence on apartness, are tinged with dislike and
contempt for other Jews, let alone non-Jews; yet even so militant a
Socialist and secularist as David Ben Gurion failed, with fateful long-term
consequences, to challenge their claim to impose Orthodox norms on the State
of Israel concerning Sabbath observance, dietary laws and, more painfully,
marriage and divorce.
Landau points out that the ultra-Orthodox in Israel live largely on charity,
their children ostentatiously exempt from military service, their attachment
to the State and its institutions lukewarm at best, arousing often bitter
hostility among the secular majority of Israelis toward what they regard as
the intolerant, anti-democratic parasites in their midst. Despite their
growing anger, secular Jews hesitate to raise a hand against bearded
patriarchal figures in the kaftans and fur hats of another age: the wearers
of those distinguishing marks take full advantage of these remnants of
traditional piety among the non-observant.
Landau too, though amply describing Orthodox intransigence, obscurantism,
power politics and corruption, is unable quite to condemn them, suggesting
in a rather lame conclusion that dismissing them as anachronistic may be
inappropriate. For their part, the Orthodox, like their fundamentalist
colleagues in Christianity and Islam, entertain no doubts whatsoever: they
are convinced that they and their 'Torah-true' descendants will remain the
only authentic bearers of the tradition long after Jews such as the authors
of these books have vanished into the general Godless population.
