WORLD SUGAR prices continued to surge yesterday as a spate of bullish news
this week pushed the market out of the narrow trading range of recent
months.
New York's May raw sugar contract, which rose by 0.5 cents on Tuesday, was a
further 0.18 ahead in early trading yesterday at 9.69 cents a lb before
easing towards the close. At the beginning of the month it was trading at
8.5 cents.
Cuba has been reported buying 100,000 tonnes of sugar from Thailand to meet
its commitments in China and elsewhere in Asia. Cuba's harvest is being
delayed once again by problems with the country's infrastructure. Mr Juan
Herrera, the Cuban sugar minister, said earlier this month that a lack of
basic inputs had 'caused delays in the start-up of a significant number of
mills'.
Thailand, which in November forecast a record 1992-93 harvest of 49.15m
tonnes, now expects only 43m tonnes of cane, compared with 47.43m tonnes
last year.
Kenya surprised the market with the announcement that it would hold a tender
next Monday for 160,000 tonnes of white sugar. Morocco is tendering for
14,000 tonnes of raws, and there is talk of Cuban sales to Mexico and of a
100,000-tonne sale to Indonesia.
'There is a buoyant physical sector, and that has brought the funds back
into New York,' said one US analyst yesterday. 'Fund buying spurred the
market through stubborn resistance at 8.65 to 8.70, and then took it through
9 cents.'
'Basically the market is looking a lot better,' said a London trader. 'Good
news has arrived when the market was at its weakest.' He pointed out that
estimates for the world sugar surplus in 1992-93 were coming down. ED &amp;. F.
Man, the London trade house, has reduced its forecast surplus from 3.4m
tonnes to 1.5m tonnes.
