<P>
Photo, Out? Styles like this 1988 pouf-skirt minidress by Christian Lacroix 
were loved by the press but panned by a public tired of trendy, high-priced 
clothes. JEAN-CLAUDE FIGENWALD; Photo, IN? For 1989, forecasters predict a 
nostalgic return to 1950s' values, emphasizing quality products, classic 
fashions and less interest in trendy things. RALF LINDQUIST / Camera Press; 
Photo, Eric Smith, creator of E. G. Smith socks, predicts a "revival of the 
1960s, a nostalgia for the days when people were hand-dying and putting patches 
on their jeans." ; Photo, What's old is what will be new, predicts Georgette 
Mosbacher. mugs ; Photo, Quality sells on Rodeo Drive, says Don Tronstein. Bob 
Mackie, right, predicts that he will return to classic looks. And Joanne 
Kozberg, far right, says L.A. will "really come of age in '89." ; Photo, "It's 
as if everybody's pregnant," says interior designer Van-Martin Rowe, who also 
notes more requests for large, family-size dining tables. Car phones, right, 
are the future to Allee Willis, who says they relieve stress. ; Photo, 
Singer/song- writer Jim Klein, left, worries about the greenhouse effect; 
others note trend to more marriages. ; Photo, The bubble, which soared in 
popularity in 1988, is deflated. ; Photo, Savants say "thirtysomething" types 
like Peter Horton and Patricia Kalember, left, will take '89 styles from past 
stars like Marlene Dietrich, above. Right, fashion's Ivana Trump. ; Photo, "The 
English language is going down the drain," laments LACMA costume curator Edward 
Maeder. 
</P>
