<P>
The three-year strategic plan to deal with AIDS in California validates the 
wisdom of the Deukmejian Administration in establishing the State AIDS 
Leadership Commission. It is this commission which drew up the document that 
provides a summation of the best professional thinking for addressing the 
pandemic and making the most effective use of the funds and facilities 
available. 
</P>
<P>
There are no surprises. The commission has drawn together programs already in 
operation and concepts already generally accepted among the professionals. The 
thoroughness of the 136-page report in bringing this material together is part 
of its value. 
</P>
<P>
Only in its timing is it disappointing. The state Legislature had requested the 
report by April 1, so that it could be a more forceful part of this year's 
legislative consideration of matters related to the epidemic of the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes AIDS. Some of the findings were 
brought out in March in legislative hearings, however; so the report's impact 
can already be measured in some of the constructive bills already voted. What 
matters more is that the report will be in place to serve as a foundation for 
planning over the next three years. 
</P>
<P>
Some people have been disappointed that there are no price tags attached. We 
think the commission was correct in resisting making this a budget document. 
Its usefulness is in establishing principles for the programs that each year 
will be adopted and adapted. 
</P>
<P>
The single most important thought of the report, in terms of dollars and cents, 
is this: "The individual, social and economic costs of the HIV epidemic are 
already high, but the costs of not aggressively combating the epidemic now will 
be higher. The advantages of responding to this highly fatal, communicable 
disease now, instead of later, must be recognized and acted on." That means 
that California, which is already spending more than any other state, will need 
to spend even more if it is to escape an even greater burden later. 
</P>
<P>
Among the dozen priority recommendations are two that have not yet been 
implemented in the state. We share the belief of the commission that they 
should be acted on promptly. First, there is the need for legislation that 
would permit a controlled investigation of the effectiveness of exchanging 
clean needles for contaminated needles among intravenous drug users. The 
drug-addicted population now has the highest infection rate and, for Los 
Angeles County, is the group most at risk. We need look no further than New 
York City, where the public health system is overwhelmed with AIDS cases among 
intravenous drug users, to grasp the importance of contriving effective 
programs to reduce the spread of HIV in this group. The other area of weakness 
in existing programs is reaching minorities, now suffering an infection rate 
disproportionate to their population numbers. "Community-based and culturally 
sensitive HIV disease prevention programs should be implemented in racial and 
ethnic minority communities throughout the state," according to the report. It 
urges a greater role by minorities in program development. 
</P>
<P>
The report reaffirms the major policies in place. It supports voluntary 
testing, opposes mandatory HIV screening, advocates broad protection against 
discrimination, and, crucially important, it argues for strengthening AIDS 
education, the only way to curb the pandemic in the absence of any known cure. 
</P>
<P>
The plan is not merely a state government proposal, but is intended to guide 
the response at every level in California, according to the preface by the 
commission co-chairmen, Dr. Kenneth W. Kizer, director of the state Department 
of Health Services, and Dr. Marcus A. Conant, a San Francisco physician and 
AIDS authority. 
</P>
<P>
"To be effective, our approach to the HIV epidemic cannot separated from other 
modern-day epidemics such as drug abuse, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
teen-age pregnancy," they argue. It is cogent advice. Indeed, the report's 
breadth can usefully spur the state's response to these other terrible 
problems, closely interwoven as they are. 
</P>
