SENATOR Lloyd Bentsen's pronouncement this week that Japanese semiconductor
processing equipment companies are withholding their latest technology from
US chip makers highlights US fears of growing dependence on Japanese
suppliers of critical technologies.
Such fears give political ammunition to the US semiconductor industry and
its Washington supporters. Senator Bentsen, Senate Finance Committee
chairman, is among the US chip industry's most powerful political allies.
That US chip makers depend increasingly on Japanese suppliers for production
tools is hardly news. Japanese companies dominate several key segments of
the semiconductor equipment market. The US wafer processing equipment
industry suffered loss of market share in the 1980s, according to a national
security assessment released by the Commerce Department's Bureau of Export
Administration last week.
This says the US chip production equipment industry 'is vital to the success
of semiconductor manufacturing'. The health of US equipment companies
'affects viability of the semiconductor industry', which in turn is crucial
for enhancing industrial capabilities, and as a source of technical military
advantage.
Privately, US semiconductor executives complain they cannot get advanced
equipment from Japan until long after their Japanese competitors. But
evidence to support US industry charges that Japanese equipment makers
deliberately delay shipments has, until now, been scant.
Senator Bentsen claims that a General Accounting Office (GAO) investigation
has uncovered several cases of alleged delays or refusals to ship critical
Japanese equipment to US companies. In other cases, he says, US chip makers
have had to pay prices 20-30 per cent higher than their Japanese competitors
to obtain the latest equipment. GAO investigators had trouble getting US
chip executives to state their problems, one industry expert said. 'US
executives are afraid to criticise Japanese equipment companies. They fear
reprisals.'
With publication by Senator Bentsen of a list of seven Japanese companies
alleged to have deliberately withheld technology from US chip makers, the
industry's code of silence is breaking down. Advanced Micro Devices said
this week it could not obtain a piece of equipment it knew its Japanese
partner was using in a US production facility. 'We agree with the Senator's
premise that the Japanese do hold back the latest equipment from us,' said
Mr James Owens Jr, vice-president of world-wide wafer fabrication technology
at National Semiconductor.
Japanese responses cite lack of US service and support arrangements, or
delays in translating manuals. 'These are just excuses,' the industry expert
says. Fears of dependence on foreign tool suppliers have fuelled US chip
industry support for Sematech, the government-funded consortium, whose
mission has become to revitalise the US semiconductor equipment and
materials industry.
The GAO report, for release this summer, is likely to stress the need for a
strong domestic chip equipment industry. Publication could coincide with
calls to renew Defence Department funding for Sematech beyond its five-year
charter.
Senator Bentsen's preview seems timed to boost pressure on Japan to open its
chip market further. US and Japanese trade officials were due to resume
talks yesterday to seek a new chip trade pact. South Korea is seeking to
build an equipment industry able to meet half its semiconductor industry
needs by the year 2000. Japanese dependence on US equipment makers led it to
create its own chip production equipment industry.
