CONTINENTAL Corporation, the US property-casualty insurer whose shares
plunged in late-September because of the impact of recent catastrophe
losses, reported a Dollars 142.1m deficit after tax in the third quarter, to
end-September. In the same period of 1991, Continental made a net profit of
Dollars 20.5m.
In September, Continental warned it would take a Dollars 120m pre-tax charge
to cover the cost of leaving both the reinsurance business and writing
insurance for small foreign companies. A further Dollars 200m pre-tax outlay
was expected to cover losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki, plus the cost
of reinstating catastrophe reinsurance.
Continental cut its dividend, and said it would lock in more than Dollars
100m of realised capital gains, to help protect its capital base. On the day
of these announcements, Continental's chief operating officer, Mr William
Thiele, left the company to pursue other interests.
The results generally reflected these moves. Continental said its
discontinued operations produced a loss of Dollars 156.5m, after the Dollars
120m charge. The on-going operations made a pre-tax profit of Dollars 20.9m,
down from Dollars 42.8m a year earlier. The decrease resulted from the
hurricane-related losses and costs, with higher realised capital gains
offsetting much of the damage. The insurer's total realised capital gains in
the third quarter were Dollars 166.4m, against Dollars 32.1m in the third
quarter of 1992.
Loews Corporation, headed by Mr Laurence Tisch, saw third-quarter after-tax
profits in the three months to end-September fall to Dollars 128.6m from
Dollars 205.4m a year ago, on revenues of Dollars 3.42bn compared with
Dollars 3.36bn.
Loews incurred a charge of Dollars 109.7m at its CNA multi-line insurance
subsidiary, due to insurance claims from Hurricane Andrew. After-tax profits
for the first nine months of the year stand at Dollars 601.5m, against
Dollars 632.1m last time.
Mr Saul Steinberg's Reliance Group Holdings, the investment and insurance
company, reported a Dollars 1.3m profit after tax in the third quarter of
1992. It said results had been depressed by Dollars 41.7m of pre-tax losses
relating to Hurricane Andrew, which cut net income by Dollars 27.5m.
However, the tiny profit marked an improvement on the Dollars 126.3m loss
seen in the same period of 1991.
