The government has several motives for its recent wholesale interference in
the electricity industry, not least a pre-election wish to prove to domestic
consumers that privatisation can bring tangible benefits in the form of
lower nominal, as well as real prices. But the crux of the negotiations
between Whitehall and the two generating companies in particular is the
future of British Coal. The irony can scarcely pass unremarked: the
government is seeking to safeguard a future privatisation by pulling strings
in a supposedly unfettered industry.
In effect, the generators are being asked to forgo some of the extra profits
they stand to make after next year from cheaper imported coal. It is
difficult to quantify, but if a deal over future deliveries of UK coal is
struck, the generators might increase annual profits by 15 instead of 20 per
cent.
Far from damaging the companies' shares, the effect of lower revenues would
be amply offset by the simultaneous removal of political and regulatory
uncertainty. A pre-election deal securing a UK coal industry with, say, 40m
tonnes of output from 28 pits, is unlikely to be overturned by a Labour
government relieved of the need for a subsidy. Nor is it likely to offend
the regulator, even though it would do little to promote competition in
electricity generation. Some of the gas-fired power stations planned by new
entrants to the market would still be uneconomic even given the slightly
higher cost of coal.
