TO CALM anxious grain traders the Chicago Board of Trade will offer a
seminar later this month on El Nino, the weather phenomenon that develops in
the equatorial Pacific every three to five years and can cause global
climate upsets. Grain traders are keen to know if they can expect this
year's El Nino to disturb the US weather pattern sufficiently to make a dent
in crop output.
Although signs of El Nino had been accumulating during 1991, only last month
did the the US National Weather Service finally conclude publicly that the
phenomenon was a fact.
The symptoms had been showing themselves overseas since last spring - rising
surface temperatures in the eastern and central Pacific, drought in the
western Pacific rim from Australia through Indonesia, a weaker Indian
monsoon, dryness in north-eastern Brazil, drought in South Africa and
wetness last summer in the Great Basin of the US, which runs from Arizona
north to Idaho.
While many of these conditions indicate that El Nino is occurring, they do
not reveal its severity. The phenomenon generally peaks in the northern
hemisphere's winter. This helps explain why Peruvian fishermen dubbed the
phenomenon El Nino, which means Christ child in Spanish. It arrived about
Christmas time.
Mr Vernon Kousky, a research meteorologist with the US weather service, now
assesses the current El Nino as 'moderate to strong'. While individual
weather events cannot always be directly attributed to El Nino, some signals
are indicative of its strength. Warm water in the Pacific is pushing
moisture into the south-western US, causing, for example, this winter's
floods in Texas, according to Mr Art Douglas, chairman of the Creighton
University's Atmospheric Sciences Department. Along the Gulf of Mexico, from
Texas to Florida, some areas have already had 200 per cent to 1,000 per cent
of their normal rainfall. Temperatures in that region are also beginning to
dip below normal. At the same time the phenomenon is upsetting the Jet
Stream, keeping extremely cold air far to the north and moderating
temperatures in the Midwest.
The Midwest, America's most important grain area, is seeing temperatures
four or five degrees Fahrenheit above normal, said Mr Jon Davis, the
in-house meteorologist for Shearson Lehman's commodities trading arm. The
weather service predicts that more of the same will occur in those regions
until spring and that the usually wet north-west is likely to be dryer, as
is the Ohio valley.
But what concerns the grain trade more is what, if anything, will happen
during the critical planting and growing season for American crops from June
to August.
Unfortunately, weather forecasting is not a precise science. Mr Kousky says
that El Nino, usually a 12 to 18 month event, has another six to 12 months
to run. But he points out that there is no consistent relationship between
El Nino and the weather pattern beyond the winter-to-spring months.
'Anything can happen,' he admits.
Crop Cast, a Maryland-based weather forecasting service that is used by many
US commodity trading houses, says that while El Nino has already affected
South American soyabeans, South African maize and Australian wheat, it is
hoping to be able to predict potentially damaging crop effects in the US by
looking at the coincidence of the El Nino with two other climatological
events, last year's eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Phillippines and the
combination of lunar and solar cycles.
These additional factors along with El Nino probably mean that a more
extreme weather pattern bleeds over into summer, according to Mr Kevin
Marcus, director of Crop Cast services. He says the likelihood of extreme,
hot and dry weather is 100 per cent, but gives only a one in three chance
that this will have a significant impact on crops.
The hot, dry weather would have to occur in July or early August to reduce
the maize and soyabean crops significantly, that is by more than 10 per
cent. But Mr Marcus is uncertain about how the three phenomena will interact
since there no established pattern. He is still waiting for more data on the
severity of this year's El Nino.
The phenomenon has prompted commodities markets to gyrate in the past. In
1972-73 the El Nino destroyed the Peruvian fishmeal catch, which then
accounted for some 45 per cent of the world trade in protein feed. In
1982-83 it caused a drought in Africa, which helped to send cocoa prices up
by nearly 70 per cent over a period of about a year.
