Ladbroke, Britain's biggest retail betting business, has reshuffled the top
management of its fledgling US betting operation and replaced a Briton with
an American. John Long has taken over from David Goodwill as president of
Ladbroke Racing Corporation based in Michigan.
Goodwill, who had been president of GrandMet's Watney North America
business, was appointed president and chief operating officer of Ladbroke
Racing in 1988. Although Ladbroke Racing now operates in five states, its
growth in a potentially vast US market has been slower than expected.
Ladbroke does not disclose the size or profitability of its US betting
business. Although it noted in its interim report that its US operations had
produced 'satisfactory results', its Minneapolis race track, in particular,
has been adversely affected by new casinos opened on nearby Indian
reservations under the provisions of the Federal Indian Gaming Regulatory
Act.
To earn decent profits on the low margin US pari-mutuel system of betting
requires high turnover. However, to help it obtain off-track betting
licences, Ladbroke has had to invest in race tracks and as the Minneapolis
venture has shown, this can present problems when local laws are changed.
By contrast with its involvement in US race tracks, Ladbroke's investment in
five off-track tele-betting theatres - complete with restaurants and bars -
in Pennsylvania appears to have been more successful and it is from this
side of the business that John Long has been recruited.
