A CONTROVERSIAL proposal for a whale sanctuary in the southern oceans is due
to be voted on today by the International Whaling Commission, whose members
were bitterly divided yesterday over whether the proposal has 'scientific
merit'.
French delegates, aware that an original proposal for an indefinite
sanctuary would fail, now propose that the IWC, holding its annual meeting
in Kyoto, should introduce a 50-year sanctuary which can be reviewed in
2003.
However, Japanese officials said the proposal, which needs approval from a
three-quarters majority of the 32 countries represented, was 'unscientific'
and beyond the brief of the IWC. They were confident of mustering at least
10 votes, which would be enough to defeat the proposal.
The sanctuary, which has support from the UK, the US and Australia, would
cover the area south of the 40th parallel in the waters around Antarctica.
It would apply to all whale species, though it may not necessarily include
the 'research whaling' currently conducted by Japan, which takes about 300
whales a year in the region.
Japanese officials said the IWC had estimated that there were about 760,000
minke whales in the southern oceans. One representative said Japan was
likely to receive support from a range of countries including Sweden and
Mexico.
While the IWC's scientific committee found that the population of minke
whales is large enough to allow limited catches, the committee also
condemned Japan for the harvesting of striped dolphins in its coastal
waters.
The committee advised last year that there should be an 'interim halt in all
direct catches of striped dolphins', but Japan admitted at least 1,000
striped dolphins were taken in 1992, and harvesting was continuing this
year.
