THE Church of England last night made history with the first religious
commercial on British television, Gary Mead writes.
The diocese of Lichfield in Staffordshire is spending Pounds 7,700 on 10
commercial slots over the next fortnight, with two different advertisements.
Last night's 20-second advertisement was screened to a potential audience of
about 8m viewers in Central Television's west region in the break during
News At Ten.
The advertisement featured a fast-moving sequence of still photographs,
building up in speed against the background of a drum beat. The pictures,
which included shots of Iraqi president Saddam Hussein, a starving child,
urban desolation, the Braer tanker, and a group of police officers, were
designed to reflect the diversity of human experience - joy and pain, life
and death, stupidity and concern. The Venerable Dennis Ede, archdeacon of
Stoke-on-Trent and communications chairman for the diocese, said: 'If you
are selling a product it's quite clear - people can either buy or not. We
are not selling a product; it's not trying to persuade people to come to
church next Sunday.' He added: 'It's an advert that may prompt people to
think about the existence of God; the aim is not bums on pews.
'There will be those who will say we are prostituting ourselves and that we
are treating the Church of England like a tin of beans. But we are not into
telly evangelism. This is the gentle use of a new medium and is very much an
experiment.'
The 1990 Broadcasting Act allowed religious groups to advertise on
television from January 1 this year.
