Ms Clare Spottiswoode, the gas regulator, has been true to her word. Not
only has she put an end to the government's dithering over publishing their
joint consultation document on how the domestic gas market should be opened
to competition. More important, the framework set out in the document
constitutes, as promised, a level playing field. British Gas's rivals will
not be able to 'cherry pick' the best customers. The company will, of
course, have to cut costs even faster if it is to earn reasonable profits
from this market once its monopoly is abolished. But rivals will not be
given the same regulatory assistance that they received when the contract
gas market was opened to competition.
At the heart of the document is a political fix: Gas's transportation arm
will levy on both Gas's supply arm and its rivals an annual standing charge
of Pounds 25 per customer. This level has been chosen so that, once the
supply arm's fixed costs are taken into account, it will not have to put up
its standing charge to customers of Pounds 37. So ministers do not need to
worry about granny facing a higher gas bill. But the fix also means that the
margin on supplying all classes of customer will be the same rather thin
one. If there is any cream to skim, rivals will have collect it with skill
rather than scooping it up in ladles.
All players will have to meet the same regulatory requirements as Gas on
matters such as security of supply and disconnection. That should keep the
quick buck cowboys out of the market. And though Gas's transportation arm
may retain back-up roles for safety and security of supply, it will be paid
a commercial rate for doing so. Gas's prospects still depend on a further
Ofgas document setting out the price formula for transportation. But the
bull case is unlikely to alter. Ms Spottiswoode has shown herself to be
rational and fair once. She can be expected to do so again.
