France said yesterday it hoped the Essen summit would endorse proposals to
bring European Union aid to the Mediterranean into better balance with the
money flowing to the east.
'At a time when the European Union is reaching out to the east, it is
important that it should not forget its southern flank - the Mediterranean
region, stretching from the Maghreb to Turkey and including Malta and
Cyprus,' said Mr Jean Musitelli, President Francois Mitterrand's spokesman.
In recent years, EU aid to the Mediterranean has amounted to only 40 per
cent of that going to eastern Europe. France is backing Commission proposals
to increase Mediterranean aid to Ecu5.5bn (Pounds 4.3bn) over the next five
years, compared with a planned Ecu7.5bn destined under the Phare programme
for east Europe.
France believes it has gained German support for more EU resources for the
south, as part of a trade-off in which Paris has shown itself steadily more
enthusiastic and open to Bonn's concerns about enlarging the Union to the
east.
While acknowledging that little can be usefully done for Algeria until that
country settles its brutal civil war, France wants the EU to press on with
negotiations for freer trade with neighbouring Morocco and Tunisia.
Mr Alain Lamassoure, France's EU affairs minister, stressed that the French
presidency in the first half of 1995 would strongly back a recent Commission
compromise proposal on imports of Moroccan tomatoes, a tender subject for EU
growers.
France plans to use its presidency of the Council of Minister to set in
train a summit meeting between EU and Mediterranean countries. But France is
already due next spring to host a gathering of purely Mediterranean
countries which it is organising with Egypt. So the EU-Mediterranean summit
is likely to be hosted by Spain, which takes over the EU presidency baton
from France next July.
