Japanese financial liberalisation is as slow as it is inevitable, as
yesterday's announcement that five commercial banks can start securities
operations next month shows. The ministry of finance is determined to
proceed at its own glacial pace. This is no big bang. Sumitomo has been
excluded for reasons of semantics, and the successful candidates will only
be allowed to participate in corporate bonds, not equities. The slow march
to liberalisation is partly explained by a bureaucracy's unwillingness to
yield power. Liberalisation, conceived in the heady days of late 1980s, is
also difficult to implement in the depths of recession. The ministry also
wants to avoid a rush of casualties among the securities houses.
Yesterday's development is still significant. The big four brokers, Nomura,
Nikko, Daiwa and Yamaichi, will scarcely be troubled. Similarly the
long-term credit banks, such as the Industrial Bank of Japan, have had time
to establish successful bond operations. However, prospects for second tier
brokers are bleak. The five commercial banks need to compensate for the
decline in their traditional corporate lending operations by aggressively
pursuing bond business.
Smaller brokers will struggle to compete. Some may need rescuing. This would
be a natural price for the ministry to exact, if it is eventually to let
commercial banks into the equity market too. Daiwa's rescue of Cosmo
Securities provides the model. When that happens the big four may face real
competition.
