Travellers in continental Europe will not be able to cross borders without
passports from next month as planned, nine European Union countries decided
yesterday.
The nine members of the Schengen free-travel accord abandoned attempts to
set a deadline for the abolition of passport controls, amid mutual
recriminations about who was to blame for the latest and most serious delay.
Senior officials from the Schengen group of countries - all 12 EU members
except Britain, Denmark and Ireland - agreed yesterday their governments
would not be able to meet the most recent target date of February 1 for
ending passport controls.
They refused to set another deadline, as they could not predict when the
Schengen zone's computer system - which is supposed to link up immigration
and police authorities - would be running efficiently enough to replace
border surveillance. No solution is thought likely before the second half of
the year.
Sema, the Anglo-French computing services group, angrily dismissed claims
that the Strasbourg-based central computer was to blame for the delay. Sema
accused national governments of not bringing their computer systems into
line. A consortium of Sema, the French computer group Bull, and
Siemens-Nixdorf of Germany has been working on Schengen's central system.
Members of the Schengen accord - named after the Luxembourg village where it
was signed - originally intended to beat the EU's deadline of January 1 1993
for abolishing all controls at internal land, sea and airport frontiers.
Since then, they have missed three further deadlines.
Yesterday's decision leaves the EU's ambition to end internal passport
controls in shreds. The European Commission has pledged to enforce what it
says is a legal obligation for all EU countries to lift controls, and faces
legal action from the European Parliament for its alleged failure to press
member states.
Agence France Presse reported yesterday that Mr Bernd Schmidbauer, state
secretary at the German chancellery, had blamed Sema itself for failing to
sort out system software problems. Germany chairs the Schengen group until
the end of June. Sema officials said the central computer had been ready for
testing on September 15, but some national systems were unprepared.
Schengen officials in Brussels said yesterday they expected to be ready to
take a decision on passport controls 'at the end of the German presidency'
of the Schengen group in June, but they stressed this was not a deadline.
Euro Citizen Action Service (Ecas) is setting up a telephone 'hotline' next
week to field border control complaints.
