The French government yesterday struck a conciliatory tone concerning the
incorporation of labour issues into international trading rules, reducing
the prospect of a dispute with developing nations at next week's signing of
the Uruguay Round trade agreements.
Mr Gerard Longuet, French industry minister, said France's aim was to
stimulate a long-term debate on whether labour issues and workers' rights
should form part of free trade agreements. But he said France wanted to
avoid a damaging split between developed and developing economies at next
week's Marrakesh meeting.
Mr Longuet said that France was not seeking to attach new labour standards
to the Gatt treaty and sought to discuss 'very general goals' such as the
banning of child labour and forced labour. He added, however, that it was
important for France and other countries to have the right to discuss issues
of labour and trade as part of the World Trade Organisation, which is due to
succeed the Gatt.
Mr Longuet's comments appeared to increase the chances of a smooth signing
of the Uruguay Round trade agreements. The possibility of incorporating
workers' rights into trade rules, raised by both the US and France, had
brought strong opposition from developing countries, particularly in Asia.
The French government, however, struck a tough note in its position towards
textiles trade. Mr Longuet said Indonesia, India and Pakistan had not made
sufficient progress on liberalising their textiles markets in line with the
new Gatt agreements.
