The UN Security Council agreed last night to maintain sanctions against
Iraq, ignoring Baghdad's formal recognition of Kuwaiti sovereignty and of
the UN-demarcated common border. The decision to recognise Kuwait by the
revolutionary Command Council was conveyed personally by Mr Tariq Aziz, the
deputy prime minister, to Ms Madeleine Albright, US delegate and current
Security Council president, before the council held its regular 60-day
sanctions review. She and other members said afterwards that the Iraqi move
was not even discussed during the review. The Security Council scheduled a
second private meeting to consider how to deal with the developments. In the
meantime sanctions will remain in place at least until January 14, the date
for the next review, and probably well into 1995 or even longer, officials
said.
The US bolstered its case against the relaxation of sanctions by presenting
satellite photographs of lavish building projects, including a retreat for
President Saddam Hussein on a 90-acre man-made lake, estimated to have cost
Dollars 1.2bn (Pounds 731.7m).
Sir David Hannay, UK delegate to the Security Council, called the evidence
'quite startling' and insisted that if the Iraqi people were suffering as a
result of the embargo, Mr Saddam's obduracy was to blame and not the
council.
In a statement to the council which was made public afterwards, Ms Albright
said the US did not even accept the recognition of Kuwaiti sovereignty 'at
face value'.
Referring to the high living standards of top Iraqis, she said Mr Saddam had
spent at least Dollars 500m on opulent new palaces for himself and his
family, who continued to 'enjoy uninterrupted supplies of ice cream,
cigarettes, liquor and other imported luxuries'. However, reporters noted
that Mr Aziz was without his customary Havana cigars yesterday.
